I don't see much of a change to the
leadership fabric of the market. It's a
different structure in terms of the
market itself. In terms of participants,
>> you are seeing a broader now.
>> Every market is pricing in this AI
structural theme.
>> People are willing to put up some
serious money to be a part of that
story.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, fiscal risk unleashed. A
pro- stimulus leader in line to become
Japan's next prime minister as another
French leader is resigning following
just one month in the job adding fuel to
the basement trade, sending gold to
fresh all-time highs. Gold up 50% year
to date. This is a clear signal that
developed markets are losing clout as
good stewards of capital as we've seen
over the past five, six decades of the
dollar standard of the euro being a
counterweight to the dollar. Where do
you go if you're not going to go to
euro? Hello France. If you're not going
to go to the yen, hello Japan. If you're
not going to go to the dollar, hello
government that still is shut down.
>> France and Japan at the epicenter of
some of these bond moves so far this
morning. Japan potentially hitting the
accelerator. France struggling to hit
the brakes. We've talked about this a
million times when it comes to the
French. The French government isn't
going to fix things until doing nothing
becomes more painful than doing
something. And the fact of the matter is
we're not there yet. And it could get a
whole lot worse
>> because there is this belief in the bond
market even as yields climb that there
will be some sort of discipline for it
upon the government. So it becomes a
chicken and egg kind of race. Does the
bond market have to really freak out
before the government does? And as long
as they have faith that the government
will respond to them, will they
ultimately have that freakout? I mean,
this is really sort of the the circular
thinking, but in the meantime, it looks
like Japan is having a bit more of that
uh of that more acceleration higher in
yields.
>> The US the bastion of stability so far
for global markets this morning. Futures
up by a third of 1% on the S&P. Coming
up this hour, Jordan Rochester of Missou
Japan selects a pro- stimulus leader.
Andrew Sheets of Morgan Stanley as
another French prime minister resigns.
and Paul Donovan of UPS as the
government shutdown holds back economic
data. We begin this hour with our top
story. Japan's ruling party lining up
the country's next prime minister in a
surprise pick sending risk assets
soaring. Joining us now is Bloomberg's
Isabelle Reynolds from Tokyo. Isabelle,
walk us through who the new leader is
and let's go through the policy
platform. What can we expect policy to
look like?
>> Right. Well, I mean, I think we should
take us a little minute just to
acknowledge that this is a really
historic moment for Japan. I mean, I've
been covering Japanese politics for
literally decades, and I always wondered
whether I would ever actually see the
day when a woman took the top job. Um,
but it seems almost certain that's
what's exactly going to happen. Um, she
is a very known as a very tough person.
She's worked her way up to up to this
position, not from one of the Japan's
political dynasties, which is where
prime ministers often come from, but
just from an ordinary middle-class
family. So that's the kind of person she
is. She's known for being tough. Um but
her policies are basically um u biased
towards more spending and towards a more
doubbish central bank policy. So those
are the bets that the market's making at
the moment. They think there's going to
be more spending in terms of whether it
be may maybe handouts or tax cuts for
households, whether it's going to be
defense spending. She's pretty hawkish
on defense as well. Um we're also
looking at the Bank of Japan. I mean
bets that the Bank of Japan will raise
rights at the end of this month. um
those bets are sort of fading away a bit
um as uh people are assuming there'll be
some pressure from her although the Bank
of Japan is officially independent there
will be some pressure from her um to
slow down down those hikes have been
promised um so that's why we've seen
these huge eruptions in the markets
today she's also seen as as basically as
a nationalist um so she's been pretty
hawkish on her what she's said on China
in the past um and she's even in recent
weeks she's hinted that she might want
to try and re renegotiate um the trade
deal Japan has with the US. Um which is
quite a bold proposition. Um she has
walked back back on that a bit. Um but
those uh diplomatic skills um if they
exist will be put to the test at the end
of this month. We're expecting Donald
Trump on a visit to Japan. Um so then
these these two uh tough leaders will be
meeting.
>> Mark that one on the calendar. Isabelle,
appreciate the update. Isabelle Reynolds
in Tokyo with the latest to extend the
conversation. Joining us now is Jordan
Rochester of Missouo. Jordan, welcome to
the program, sir. Let's get into this.
This could be a big moment and I think
the market's trying to work out what
kind of moment. Is this an ARB like type
moment for the FX market or dare I say a
trustlike moment for the bond market.
Which one?
>> It's not trust but it could be is is
what the market's saying. This is
sanomics. This is the new version of
arbonomics is what the market's
thinking. But I think John we need to
have some level of caution. There's what
politicians say and there's what they
do. And what she can do with this
current setup is pretty difficult
because the Arbanomics faction, the AB
faction of the LDP is much weaker after
a lot of election defeats in their
seats. So roughly half the size of what
they were a year ago. So the message
we've been giving clients just now this
morning and over the weekend is that
Takayichi whilst she stands for a lot of
the policies that Arbonomics had. though
that would lead to looser monetary
policy for sure than what should be the
case and that would lead to a weaker
yen. It's not really clear-cut to me
because in order to win win the LDP
election, she needed other factions to
help her get over the line and a key
part of that was the ASO faction who are
more fiscally prudent and uh the
intervention from the former prime
minister Aso himself to arguing to
respect the me the party member vote
where Takahi overwhelmingly won is the
key reason why she won this weekend. But
it also means that she'll probably have
to appoint a finance minister who might
actually see the market move the other
way. John, we might see the the the yen
sell off and the sort of long end sell
off in JGBs relax a bit once we know who
the finance minister is if if they are
fiscally prudent and a sort of
continuation uh candidate uh for that
role from the previous administration.
>> Jordan, how high is your conviction
level that what she does is somewhat
different from what she says? meaning
are you recommending to clients that
they buy the yen here at uh with the
dollar at 150 surpassing that 150 level
versus the Japanese currency?
>> I'd say it depends on the timeline. So
medium to high I'd say high conviction
that with the current setup in the
parliament the LDP don't have a a
mandate. They don't have a a majority.
They rely on a coalition party that
doesn't even get them over the line. So
they they're entering into coalition
talks. So, I've got a pretty high
conviction she can't suddenly do very
large bold policies because she might
lose members of her own party or make
those coalition talks quite difficult.
For example, the consum consumption tax
cut which was all the talk last time
around in the elections last year when
it comes to Takichi's own view on that
watered down significantly. So, I don't
think we're going to have a big fiscal
agenda. That is until we see her
polling. Once we see the polling, if the
LDP shoots up to something of a 40 to 50
uh handle, if you see her own personal
ratings improve, then we can't rule out
elections. And once she if if that
happens, Lisa, if we get an election
this time or or or or early next year,
let's say, then I can't rule that out.
>> It feels somewhat different though even
than a Liz Trust moment, Jordan, or
potentially what could become a Liz
Trust moment because this is global.
This is Japan. This is France. This is
the United States where the government
is shut down, where a lot of governments
are showing a real reluctance to clamp
down on deficits that have been
climbing. They want to still lean on
that deficit lever, which is the reason
why you see bond yields creeping higher,
particularly in the 30-year
denomination. At what point does the
collective story take on a life of its
own?
>> It already is. I think it is happening
right now. So as you mentioned the US
with its own fiscal issuance, Germany
with its own fiscal issuance and now
France of course has been with the
largest deficit in the in the the Euro
area uh all flagging that point. The
only one that stands out as not actually
joining in with the party is the UK
because of the fiscal rules that the
chancellor has has thrown on themselves.
But Japan is very acutely aware of this
problem. The Ministry of Finance has
been reducing the auction sizes in the
long end to try and uh deal with that.
But what's changed in the the sort of
functioning of the Japanese uh JGB
market is the demand from life insurance
insurers for long-end JGBs has collapsed
versus what it used to be. And actually
the majority of the trading volumes in
JGBs from the 10 year onwards is from
foreigners. And so this means that you
get these sort of big moves as you've
seen today thanks to foreigners being
the overwhelmingly large share of
trading volume in in ultra long end JBS
but also around the 10-year bucket
onwards as well. So all in all when
everyone's issuing at the same time
something will break. I'm not sure how
when politicians will take note but I
think they are already and I think
that's why the LDP's fiscal prudence
wing has played a large influence in
TA's change in her opinions.
>> Jordan in addition to that the role of
the central bank I think there's a big
question up in the air about that. So
let's discuss it. Traditionally if this
was the United States we'd be talking
about a pro- fiscal stimulus party or
leader. we'd be talking about tighter
monetary policy to offset some of that.
That wasn't a conversation in Japan
overnight. In fact, the pricing of rate
hikes in the future actually came in.
Now, Jordan, I wonder, is this really a
unique independent central bank? What is
going on with the central bank story and
the relationship between the government
and the BOJ?
>> All all these independent central banks,
they all they for example, the Fed, they
answer to Congress. So, there is a
political uh sort of influence on all of
them. Uh the Bank of England, the ECB,
etc. When it comes to the BOJ, there is
a a pretty strong level of political
cooperation. Uh it's written into the
Bank of Japan's charter. Now, this has
we've seen this before. Arbonomics is a
clear case of this where most people
assume that Arbonomics was both fiscal
easing and monetary. Sure, it was, but
Arbonomics actually leaned heavily on
the monetary policy side of of that
story and we saw the Bank Japan expand
their QE and so forth eventually going
negative rates, too. So there is the
potential for Takichi to play a large
role. If you think back to last year,
Prime Minister Oshiba, there's history
behind this, John. One day after
becoming prime minister, he said now is
probably not the right time for the BJ
to raise rates and they delayed that
rate hike uh from October to through to
January. So Takichi might say the same
thing. We've only had one tweet from her
and one victory speech so far. And so we
we haven't got enough information. But
what what I will say is it's very
different to Arbonomics when inflation
was at near zero. Inflation's been above
two for the past two to three years in
Japan. And the aim of this government is
to try and bring inflation down. You
don't really achieve that by uh stopping
the bank Japan from raising rates. So
John, I think they still raise rates.
October is clearly much less likely now
because the BOJ might want to wait and
see what the budget will be. So that
makes December or January still live
meetings. But if you were to ask me
John, I'd be paid the October meeting. I
think the riskreward is still there. The
Bank of Japan has lined up loads of
speeches this month. We'll hear from
Governor Ua himself later this week as
well. The data is strong in Japan. It's
it all it all adds up to a rate hike,
John, apart from the politics and the
uncertainty.
>> Watch this space. Jordan, thanks for
jumping on on a breaking news over the
weekend. Thank you, sir. Jordan
Rochester there of Missouo. Big move in
dollar yen up by 2% back through 150.
Japanese yields particularly at the long
end of the curve much higher as well.
There's a feeling listening to Jordan
that Takichi is going to be more
constrained than the late Shinszu Abbe
ever was. Maybe that's the reason why
you're not seeing an even greater sell
off in the currency and even higher
yields, something like 14 basis points
in terms of the increase in 30-year
yields in Japan. Goldman Sachs analysts
came out and said this is going to be a
global move and that for every 10 basis
points higher in Japanese yields, you're
going to see two or three basis points
higher in the likes of the US and in
Europe. A real question though about
whether this is just going to be a rumor
or whether that's going to be
essentially what's actually going to
happen. and US curve steeper today.
10-year bond yields high by three basis
points. Get it back up to 415. Let's
give an update on stories worldwide.
What a morning already with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yihara Arnand. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Japan's ruling conservative
party has elected Saya Takayichi as its
new leader. The pro- stimulus lawmaker
is a former government minister, avid
heavy metal drummer and longtime fan of
Britain's Margaret Thatcher. the yen
weekend and Japanese long bond yields
climbed following her election which
fueled expectations of continued policy
easing. Meanwhile, in Europe, French
Prime Minister Sebastian Le Cornu has
resigned after less than a month on the
job and just one day after a
controversial cabinet reshuffle.
President Emanuel Mcronone now has to
decide whether to name a new prime
minister, call up parliamentary
election, or resign himself. And here in
the US, the government shutdown is
entering its sixth day. The Senate is
set to vote again today on a stop gap
spending bill that's already failed four
times. Senate Minority Leader Chuck
Schumer says House Speaker Mike Johnson
has refused to negotiate with Democrats
on extending healthc care subsidies.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara a
little bit later in the program. Up
next, there goes another one.
Another
French prime minister resides. Andrew
Sheets of Morgan Stanley joins us next.
[Music]
Live from New York City, welcome back to
the program. Here's the week ahead is
shaping up as follows. Look out for
earnings from Delta Airlines on
Thursday, kicking off earnings season.
That's going to be one to watch because
we could be light on data again.
Likewise, the Fed minutes on Wednesday.
Where is the Fed? How divided is that
committee right now with or without
economic data? on Wednesday, too. Look
out for $39 billion of 10year notes
coming to market. 30-year bonds coming a
day later. What a week to issue some
long bonds.
>> Yeah, it's really important to note that
what you just said is absolutely
correct. The delta is going to be so
important and earnings are going to be
so important because of the incredible
der of other data. We're just in rumor
and speculation, which is the reason why
I'm even more excited about these
options. $58 billion of two notes on
Thursday, 10-year notes, $39 billion on
Wednesday, as you mentioned, and $22
billion of 30 notes on Thursday, given
the fact that people are in this rumored
strange zone of are we losing the idea
of some sort of credibility in developed
markets.
>> Then you've got the influence of France
and Japan led on top of all of that.
It's a lot to think about at the moment
for equities. Not much to think about,
just up and up. And that was Max Ker of
HSBC a week ago. And that's exactly what
this equity market has done. Six days,
no losses. Equities up again by a third
of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by
0.5. Let's talk about France and what's
happening in Europe under Savylvanas
this morning. There goes another one.
The latest this morning, the French
Prime Minister Sebastian Londonu
resigning. A surprise move that deepens
France's political crisis. The premier
stepping down less than 24 hours after
President Macarron named a new cabinet.
Joining us now to explain all of this is
Bloomberg's Caroline Konan. Caroline,
welcome back to the program. We've done
this a few times in the last 12 months
already. What's new about this one?
Well, the new thing is that he is the
shortest lived prime minister in the
fifth republic that was created by Shel
de Gaul in 1958,
three and a half weeks only for
Sebastian Cornu. And as you were
mentioning, we've done this quite a few
times already. We've seen Franu
collapsed three weeks ago. Michelle
Barney collapsed last December. So
clearly there was some really
misunderstanding after the nomination of
this cabinet last night seen as a
provocation by opposition parties
because it was broadly unchanged
compared to his predecessor Franu and
you had the return of Bruno Lomeare as
defense minister which didn't go very
well with the Republicans who were
threatening to leave the boat entirely.
The socialists also didn't really agree
with Lukon even though he tried to
change the method by saying he will not
force any bill through parliament. He
would let the parliament decide on the
budget. He would let the parliament
debate all the details on the budget. He
didn't want to have the retirement
reform come back to the national
assembly. This reform that was adopted
back in 2023 after months of protest. So
now all eyes turn to President Emanuel
Mron to the Elise. Is he going to speak
today? Is he going to announce what
happens next? He has three options. Ren
naming a new prime minister, but he's
done it many times over the past year.
Or he could perhaps call new snap
legislative elections again after the
ones in 2024.
or he could also resign which some
parties from both the far right and the
far left are now calling for.
>> The pressure keeps building. Carolene,
thank you. Caroline Kanan over in Paris.
You see the spillover in the FX market.
Euro dollar down by.7% 11658. Big winner
of the year. European banks, French
banks this morning hammered.
>> Yeah. Well, I can imagine going forward
if there is this idea of political
dysfunction and potentially yields
rising in the wrong manner. I just
wonder the fact that the dollar is
strengthening today, not because it's a
fantastic bastion of of functionality,
but rather everything else is more
dysfunctional, gives you a sense of
where we're at.
>> Had a quick sneak peek of sock gen this
morning, down 5%. And then looked at
year today, I think year today is up
something like 90 plus% for 2025. So
just bear in mind these moves this
morning are big. They're important, but
relative to the year so far, they're
like this. They're nothing. Well, which
this is the reason why I think that
there is a bigger move outsized move
regardless of what happens just because
people have gotten so on one side of the
trade, this bet in European stimulus and
this bet in some sort of stability amid
all of this.
>> Andrew Sheets of Morgan Stanley joins us
now for more. Andrew, let's talk about
all of this. Japan, France, the UK as
well. It's either an inability or
unwillingness to do something about the
fiscal trajectory. Andrew, as someone
who has to look across fixed income,
what does that mean to you?
>> Yeah, thanks. Good, good morning. So,
look, I I think you have a global
phenomenon of of pretty challenging
fiscal situations, right? The US is
running a deficit of 6.5% of GDP. Japan
appears to be looking at more fiscal
easing. The French budget is is in a
challenging state. Um, and and the UK is
clearly in focus. So, so one, I I think
this is an issue that is is a global
phenomenon and one where there's a lot
of longerterm momentum towards towards
weaker fiscal positions. We do think
that the UK might be in a somewhat
better place than appreciated. Its
deficits moving in a different direction
than these other countries, which is a
reason why we do think you could see
somewhat weaker growth in the near term,
more Bank of England cuts, but
ultimately better guilt performance. But
I also think this is a situation where
in some levels this could work to
credit's advantage because if we think
about the better relative state of
corporate balance sheets the fact that
say in the US right it is tax cuts for
corporations that is in one level
widening the federal public budget
deficit that kind of some of the same
factors that are driving the public
deficits wider are making the private
sector balance sheets better and that
can work to credit's advantage
>> at this point. Andrew, we talked
previously about the possibility of
corporate spreads trading inside of
where government rates are. Do you see
that as an increasing likelihood? We've
already seen that with a couple of
issuances from work uh from Microsoft.
I'm just wondering if you see that as a
path of travel. Yeah, I I do think I
mean I think the the best way that I
would probably think about that is is we
can still look at at very narrow
corporate spreads probably relative to
where would one would otherwise expect
the the macroeconomic environment to to
dictate it. And as you mentioned, um I
think it's very highquality spreads that
that can trade very tight. You know, as
this is the the 90th anniversary of
Morgan Stanley, we were we were looking
back at the first bond deal that Morgan
Stanley brought 90 years ago. It was
kind of a high quality piece of double A
paper. I mean in 1935
um you know that paper was trading we
think at kind of 70 over treasuries. So
there's there's a lot of historical
precedent for highquality bonds trading
tight generally. And I think in an
environment where the market is looking
for safety, a lack of drama, a lack of
headline risk. Uh that can be very
valuable and lead some of these
highquality parts of the market to trade
quite expensive.
>> How immune are strong corporations to
the country they're in? And I asked this
at a time when we're talking about the
government debt markets displaying a bit
of concern about dysfunction in a
variety of places. How much does it
matter for the corporations what domain
they reside in?
>> Yeah. So I I do think an interesting
part of this is that the reason why
corporates should not trade through
governments I I think has always been
based on a pretty reasonable idea that
the corporates ultims excuse me
governments ultimately hold the power of
taxation. And so in a in a scenario
where the budget deficit was was so uh
troubling that they would turn to the
corporate sector and they would tax back
that money and create more of a credit
challenge. Now I I think you've seen it
certainly in the US uh the opposite. You
you've seen uh corporate taxes being
lowered on a going forward basis. In
Europe the the trajectory is certainly
not towards corporate tax raises kind of
in in the main. So I think that's
important because that is one kind of
strong counterweight you know to this to
this idea. So I think for the moment the
trajectory is very much towards
corporates still being in a relatively
better position and government still in
a number of these different
jurisdictions not being ready not being
willing uh not wanting to to raise and
change that corporate tax burden in a
way that would shift that balance back.
Andrew, as you know, the sovereign also
has a backs stop in Europe, the
transmission protection instrument, TPI,
at the ECB. What kind of levels would we
have to see French shields break out to
to introduce the ECB, the idea of it
stepping in?
>> Yeah, I I think we're still a little
ways away from that. I mean, and again,
I do think as we we kind of digest the
uh the price action that we've seen so
far, you know, this morning, this is
something that we do think was
relatively expected. maybe not
necessarily today, but but on a a
relatively near-term basis. And I think
the ECB is also going to care about just
the broader functioning of of markets,
the broader level of financial stability
and whether we see kind of any levels of
of kind of undue undue tightening. So,
you know, overall, as you mentioned, you
know, the markets might be down, but
many of these institutions have
performed quite well over a long period
of time. you know, going back to
breaking some of that sovereign versus
corporate dynamic of your last question.
Again, I think we've generally seen the
correlation of equities and credits
within these countries be lower than we
saw in previous p bouts of volatility,
and I think that also helps. Now, that
being said, we at Morgan Stanley do
think the ECB will ease policy more than
the market's expecting over the next 6
months. We think inflation will come
down more than the market's expecting,
but we're we're not expecting any kind
of immediate stepping in here. Andrew,
this was great. It's good to see you.
Thanks for coming in. Andrew Sheets
there of Morgan Stanley. My takeaway
there and there are many. Number one
maybe spreads are super tight, but
perhaps that tells you more about the
sovereign issuer than it does the
corporate.
>> The corporations just look relatively
better. And it raises the question, when
does the sovereignty start to say, "Hey,
corporations, you're doing pretty well.
Can you give us some?"
>> This wasn't a slow start to the week,
was it?
>> No. My goodness.
>> Anything but anything but from New York
City this morning. Good morning to you
all. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Six days, no losses on the S&P 500. The
gains continue up around a third of 1%
on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 higher by
0.6. In the bond market, check out this
2's 10 30s. Not a big move. Yields
bleeding car at the long end. Up by four
basis points. 10's at about 41579. You
want a bigger move? Look to France.
Switch up the board. Euro dollar
negative off the back of some more
French political turmoil. What's new? I
know 11663. Euro dollar down by.7%.
French bond yields higher by eight basis
points. Check out that move on dollar
yen. Dollar yen 2% move 15040. New
leader for the LDP pro stimulus could
shake things up in the same way did.
Let's see about that. But ultimately
that's conversation to kick off the
trading week. Just take the year. Take
the year so far. US government bond
yields on a 10-year maturity down 40
basis points. French yields up 40 basis
points. Japanese 10-year bond yields
higher by something like 60 basis
points. On the 30 by a whole lot more.
All this conversation about the US and
fiscal risk. The US and fiscal risk. US
government bonds have really
outperformed France and Japan in a
material way so far here today.
>> And I don't think you could take that
and say that's because the US has a
fantastic fiscal house in order. This is
really a question of everywhere else
seeing the same fiscal issues that the
United States is seeing and then some.
and the expectations were better for
them. So, this raises a question. Does
the story take on a life of its own when
it's global like this? Is it a different
story than just oh yeah, the budget
deficit and those uh concerns that
people had for decades before?
>> Yields bleeding higher across the curve,
steeper curves, as Lisa pointed out
ahead of some supply later this week.
That's the bond market, the global bond
market story, three hours away from the
cash open. Let's get you some morning
movers. Here's Danny Ber. Hey, Danny.
>> Good morning, John. It does seem like
the concerns about what's happening with
governments around the world and here in
the US with the shutdown ongoing is
igniting this so-called debasement
trade. At least that's what our
reporters are running with. And you're
seeing Bitcoin over the weekend hitting
all-time highs 125,000. So the crypto
link stocks are taking off. Circle up
nearly 5%, Strategy up 2.3%, Coinbase up
2.3%. Uh an analyst even telling our
reporters that apparently Pokemon cards
are also trading at an all-time high as
part of this trade. So make of that what
you will. Elsewhere, some sellside
action for you. Micron shares, one of
the biggest gainers in the S&P 500 in
the pre-market trade, up three and a
half. Joseph Moore over at Morgan
Stanley upgrading from to from hold to
overweight, saying that this has a lot
more run to go in its prices and yes,
that valuation is a concern, but Micron
has very strong pricing power that it's
going to be able to retain. So that's
the latest with Micron. Elsewhere, a
report Reuters report this morning that
the Trump administration has been in
talks with Critical Metals about taking
a stake. There is a loan currently out
to them. So, it would be one of those
conversions to equity, something that
the department that the uh US has been
doing with other companies. It is a rare
earths company based in Greenland.
Again, those shares up 68% off the back
of that Reuters report. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thank you very much.
The news keeps coming. This headline
crossed on a Bloomberg terminal. Fifth
Third Tobico America for 82.88
per share. Fifth Third Tobacco America
all stock deal valued at 10.9 billion.
We have been told a million times we're
going to start to see this. You're going
to see more of it. Now it's starting to
happen.
>> Yeah. And this comes as capital markets
are clearly wide open particularly for
the banks where you do see a more uh
familiar uh regulatory environment in
Washington DC. I found this interesting.
We have a couple of different
projections from Julian Emanuel of
Evercore ISI for the end of next year in
terms of the S&P 500. 7750 is what he
said. He said there is a 30% chance of a
bubble-like condition that could push
the S&P to 9,000. And he said this
capital market acceleration is key to
the continuation of the bull market. So
hello Fifth Third. Hello K America.
These deals just keep mounting.
>> The doors wide open. The regulators
ready to let it happen in the minds of
many. And we're seeing the headlines
cross fifth third bank America 8288 for
share. More on that story throughout
this morning. Elsewhere on our radar,
what a morning. French Prime Minister
Sebastian Lornu resigning just one day
after a controversial cabinet reshuffle.
French bond yields rising on the renewed
political turmoil. Elsewhere, Japanese
markets surging after pro- stimulus
lawmaker Sai Takichi secured the ruling
party's vote to become Japan's next
leader. Speculation over Takichi's
demand boosting policies, sending the
Nikkay higher and the yen lower against
the dollar. And finally, federal unions
are suing to stop mass firings of
government workers during the government
shutdown. Layoffs are being held off
until today's Senate vote, but National
Economic Council Director Kevin Hasset,
warning cuts will start if negotiations
go nowhere.
>> Yeah, ultimately this really comes down
to whether the the Democrats show signs
of progress in those talks. That's what
Kevin Hasset said on CNN State of the
Union uh yesterday. A real question here
about what this means for markets. Right
now, they're shrugging it off. Even
though there's a se more than 70% chance
priced into betting markets that you are
going to get a shutdown that extends
longer than October 15th. If you start
to see those layoffs, watch for the
potential economic impacts to get priced
into the market a little bit more.
That's what I think is going to be
different about this shutdown.
>> Just to build on that, you're absolutely
right. The difference between furloss
and firings. Paul Donovan of UBS will
join us a little bit later. Typically
we'd look through this. Why? Because
it's just economic activity delayed, not
derailed. You bounce back. This would be
very different if we started talking
about firings and not furls.
>> Yeah. Because ultimately the billions of
dollars that people say gets removed
from GDP in a given quarter wouldn't
just come back in the form of paychecks
that then would get spent. And that's
the reason why people are looking at
this and saying that could make this
shutdown and we're used to a lot of
them. They happen often uh very
different from others.
>> Paul is going to join us in about 10
minutes time. So look out for that.
Let's turn to commodities. Growing
fiscal concerns in the US, Japan, and
Europe, fueling a so-called debasement
trade, pushing gold to fresh all-time
highs. Dan Stroven of Goldman Sachs
writing, "Gold remains our highest
conviction long commodity
recommendation." Dan joins us now for
more. Dan, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. Go through the
price targets now for for year end for
next year. We'll take it from there.
What are you looking for at the moment?
>> Yes, so we have gold rising another 10%
to 4,300s by the end of by the end of
next year. uh but with significant
upside both because the the recent
drivers of the rally are driven by the
pretty sticky inflows from both central
banks and ETF holders holdings. It's not
driven by spec positioning which tends
to be more mean reverting. And second uh
in September we saw that ETF inflows
were six times larger than what our
rates based model predicts suggesting
that private sector diversification into
this relatively small market and the
gold market is about 70 times smaller
than the US treasury market that this is
causing potential significant additional
upside to our already above the forwards
and above consensus target.
>> So let's try and separate those
individual drivers. Let's go for the
first first of all and then we'll get to
the the second and third point later.
The central bank diversification has
been a story that's been building now
for a number of years and we've seen
that in the performance of gold. Why do
you think that story is not just a
one-off diversification that you
actually believe that's an ongoing
trend, something that could persist?
>> Yes. So, we think that em central banks
remain underweight gold. We think that
the the freezing of Russia central banks
reserves in 2022 was a significant
wakeup call with reserve managers in
central banks realizing that the truly
only safe asset if you hold it in your
domestic vaults is gold. We estimate
that for instance the Chinese central
bank has about 8% of its reserves in
gold. The global average is 20%. Uh
that's also where Russia went uh by
2022. If you look at central bank
surveys of gold purchase intentions,
they are at the record high. So we think
central banks remain underweight gold.
We estimate that you probably have
another roughly three years of very
rapid purchases that have been five
times faster uh since 22 than the
pre2022 average. So that is really the
main structural driver of a bullish gold
call. Cycllically with 100 basis points
of additional Fed cuts, you get an
additional boost because ETF holdings
tend to rise in the gold markets when
rates come down.
>> So right now we're looking at almost
4,000 on gold. You have a price target
of 4,300 by the end of next year. What's
the likelihood that it is substantially
higher than that? And do you have a
target?
>> So I think it's it's quite plausible.
The restore forecast as we have flagged
are skilled skewed significantly uh to
to the upside. Uh, and I think one way
to think about it is that in contrast to
most other commodities, high gold prices
don't cure high prices. If this were to
happen in the oil or natural gas market,
you would see a very big supply
response. Higher supply would pull
prices down. The gold market is
different. If you look at annual mine
production of gold, it's only 1% of the
total gold that's outstanding that has
ever been mined. So, the supply side
doesn't respond significantly to higher
prices. And demand from what we call the
two high conviction buyers in our gold
pricing framework. Central banks and
ETFs, they don't buy or sell for price
considerations. They buy because they
have convictions about the risks to the
macroeconomy, because they want to hedge
risk, because they want to diversify.
And so, in contrast to most other
physical commodities that are consumed,
uh I think that there is significant
upside to to the gold price uh where
where high prices don't cure high
prices. So can we get get a sense of how
much the gold story really is central
bank buying and diversification away
from the US or other areas that could
potentially seize their assets etc and
how much is actually a vote about
inflation a vote about the idea of
fiscal irresponsibility in developed
markets around the world
>> yes so I think you want to break down
the rally since 22 into two parts the
rallies in 22 23 and 24 when it was
really driven by central bank
diversification into old because rates
were were high and rising. But this year
we're up 50%. You have the two sources
of diversification pushing in the same
direction. Why? Because rates are coming
down. And when rates come down because
gold is a non-yielding asset, the
private sector also steps into the gold
market. And so the rally has accelerated
because both sticky buyers in our high
con in our high conviction buyer
framework are pushing in in the same
direction. And in September, uh we
actually think that ETF, so the private
sector was the biggest driver of the
rally. You mentioned also limited depth
in this market. That's a really
important factor. Does that raise
questions about potential spillover to
other markets that the depth just isn't
there for everyone to get the kind of
diversification they might be looking
for?
>> Yes. So I think you're seeing an
acrosstheboard rally in precious metals
this year with silver actually
outperforming gold this year despite the
fact that central banks they are buying
gold. They're not buying silver. Why is
that? because I think some of those
diversification motives that are pushing
flows into the gold market are also
happening in other precious markets like
the silver market and and so I said that
the gold market is about 70 times
smaller than the treasury market but
guess what the silver market is 10 times
smaller than the gold market so any
small diversification step into these
relatively small markets can cause very
spectacular price upside
>> is bitcoin a precious commodity
>> that's um it's an interesting question
uh we think that uh from a portfolio
investor perspective, the properties are
very different. Um, both precious metals
and bitcoin prices can rise very very
quickly. But if you for inance look at
the correlation with the S&P 500 and one
of the reasons to hold gold is that it's
a safe haven. The correlation between
Bitcoin and for instance the S&P 500
tends to be significantly higher. So
it's a more volatile, more correlated,
more pro-risk uh asset than than gold
which is still a safe haven.
>> Do you think that's changed this year?
the correlation, the relationship
between gold and risk because certainly
just to take a step back into why I
bought this, the chart is pretty clear
today. Stocks up, gold up. What's the
relationship between gold and risk
>> um can indeed can indeed change uh
change over time, but I think if if you
look at um you know some of the macro
considerations that have led investors
into the gold market. I think they're
more clearly reflected in bond
performance. So you mentioned for
instance the the Japanese or or French
uh bond underperformance this year and
some of those questions about macro
fiscal policy I think are are putting
upward pressure on bond yield premium
and and are are also helping the gold
price to move higher
>> 3943 if you'd said 12 months ago 4k we
would have laughed and now we're pretty
much at 4K Dallas good to see you thanks
for dropping by thank you sir Dan
Stroven of Goldman Sachs on a major
rally for gold this year we're up 50%
year to date let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara Arnard.
Hi, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump is urging
Israel and Hamas to reach a settlement
to end the two-year war in Gaza.
Mediated talks begin today in Egypt with
US Envoy Steve Wickoff attending. The
first test of progress will be whether
Hamas releases its remaining hostages in
exchange for Israel freeing Palestinian
prisoners. Meanwhile, here, California
Governor Gavin Nuome says he'll sue the
Trump administration over its order to
send his state's National Guard troops
to Portland. Newsome argues the
deployment defies a federal court ruling
that found no legal basis for using
state troops. It's the latest flash
point in the president's push to
federalize law enforcement in Democratic
le states.
And shares of Comica are soaring up 13%
this morning after the bank announced a
definitive merger agreement with Fifth
Third Bank Corp. Fifth Third will
acquire Coma in an all stock transaction
valued at $10.9 billion. The deal is
expected to close at the end of the
first quarter of 2026. That's Bloomberg
Brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank
you very much. More from Yahihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, distorted data. This shutdown
is compounding an existing problem which
is that our data is being substantially
distorted by tariff developments,
frontloading inventories.
>> That conversation up next with Paul
Donovan of UBS live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Stocks are higher. I sound like a broken
record over the last week. Up by 0.4% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ 100. Higher by
0.6. Stuart Kaiser City. No news is good
news. Nadia Levelvel saying this on
Friday of UBS. We continue to recommend
staying structurally long as evidence of
a possible meltup into year end grows.
mountups and bubbles. Lisa mentioned
Everore, Judian Emanuel, increased
probability of a bubble in his note over
the weekend.
>> Yeah, talking about a 30% chance of the
S&P 500 rising to, yes, you heard it,
9,000 by the end of next year. So, you
know, John Solzfist, the biggest bull, I
don't think so. Uh, we're looking at the
potential upside scenario that is
significantly higher, which raises the
question that you asked earlier. What is
the connection between gold and risk? It
is that the money printer is in action.
It is going. It is making its noises and
a lot of people are taking note and
following it
>> based on those calls. Who needs economic
data? Hey surveillance this morning,
distorted data.
>> This shutdown is compounding an existing
problem which is that our data is being
substantially distorted by tariff
developments, frontloading inventories.
There is already a giant question mark
around what data should we be using. We
don't have good reads and our
month-to-month data is not telling us
the true story of the American economy
or the American consumer.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Another week of economic data at risk as
the government shutdown enters its sixth
day. Paul Donovan of UBS Global Wealth
Management writing the following. The
problem is that alternatives like
sentiment surveys are even worse and
that's all the markets will be left to
work with. Paul joined us now for more.
Paul, you're one of our favorites. It's
great to finally catch up with you after
a period of time. Paul, I want to get
your opinion on this. I've heard a lot
of people say we're flying blind without
the data. Were we flying blind already?
>> We weren't flying blind. We were we were
perhaps flying in quite a thick fog. Um
so for about 15 years, economists have
been complaining about the deteriorating
quality of economic data. Nobody fills
in surveys anymore. Uh structural change
means that we're missing parts of the
economy. You know, where in the
employment report is the Tik Tok content
creator? um and partisan bias. The
political bias in the states is getting
extreme and people are answering
according to their political views, not
according to what's happening actually
happening in their lives. So, we've had
this problem for some time, but the
official data did the best of a bad job.
It did the best that it could in order
to, you know, filter out some of this
noise and give us an idea about where
the economy was performing in real time.
So, how does it change going forward
that we don't even have that, right?
That we end up in uh the realm of
speculation and rumor at a time where
people just take all of that, put it
together, and say, "Well, stocks have to
just keep going up."
>> So, this is where I think things do
start to get tricky. Um perhaps a little
bit less for the equity market than for
the bond market because, of course,
corporate data, as long as companies are
honest, uh is going to be still
reliable. So the you know the the
earnings reports that come out the
corporate announcements that are legally
obli companies are legally obliged to
put out that should all be okay but the
bigger macro picture is getting more
confused and some of it is you know
reliant on what we're seeing elsewhere
in the world you know how do we judge US
trade data well let's see what other
countries are saying when they're
talking about exports to the states for
example you we're having to back out
data some of the time
>> you made a really good point Paul in
your recent notes that Right now, the
market is treating the shutdown that's
going on in Washington DC as negligible.
Something that will maybe cause a loss
of economic activity. It will just be
recouped potentially in uh a couple
weeks and months time. Why do you think
this time really could be different?
>> So, as a baseline, I don't think it is
going to be different. You we get this
with every shutdown. You get a period
where data economic activity is
suppressed and then you get a period
where you rebound. The back pay is paid
back. That kind of thing. The only real
difference this time is that US
President Trump has talked about
possibly firing some more government
employees. Now, that is different
because then of course you're not
getting the rebound from those
employees. you are also potentially
creating some fear of unemployment uh
amongst people both in and outside the
government sector. That would be a more
troubling uh situation because you would
get the slowdown but the rebound that we
normally would see would be a lot more
muted. I would regard that very much as
the risk case, not as the base case. The
base case I think is this is going to be
like every other shutdown. You know,
down in week one, up in week two, that
kind of thing. But there is that risk if
some employees are going to lose their
jobs permanently as a result of the
shutdown.
>> Paul, I think we all hope you're
absolutely right and we do bounce back
and just get back to work, get back to
business, and this economy grows. The
other thing I wanted to talk to you
about was inflation, market-based
expectations of inflation, how the Fed
measures things, and ultimately how
consumers experience it. Paul, I've
heard you in the past talk about
frequency bias. Could you explain that
as a concept in economics and why that's
important to the difference between how
consumers feel and what the Fed is
tracking?
So this is a very important point.
Everybody is guilty of frequency bias.
That is to say, you know, you remember
the price of the Snickers bar you buy
every day. You do not remember the price
of a television you buy every, you know,
3, four, 5 years. And so as a result
when prices change in high frequency
purchases it sort of sticks in your mind
and every time I go to you know the
vending machine at work I think oh that
price has gone up I remember when it
used to cost 70 and now it's costing me
90 and it sticks in your mind and that
then colors the view of inflation that
you have. The fact that the the
television is 20% cheaper than the last
one you bought 7 years ago. You don't
remember that because you can't remember
what you paid in the past. So the
problem that we have is that when you
see basically rising food and rising
fuel prices, those are prices that
consumers will remember and that will
create a sense of dissatisfaction when
you have food and fuel inflation. Um, if
you have an overall fairly benign
inflation environment and there's
something weird going on with food
supply, that can create a peculiar
situation where the central banker is
saying, "No, inflation isn't a a problem
at all." And the consumer is saying,
"No, the cost of living goes up. Look
how much I had to pay the supermarket
this week." So, that's really the issue.
>> Paul, is that the situation now? Is that
how you describe things? And does it
shape consumer behavior?
>> Well, what we've got at the moment, it's
quite interesting. It's it's it's sort
of a reverse of what happened under the
last administration. So in the last
administration, inflation was coming
down. Nobody really believed it because
food price inflation was very high.
There was a an episode of profitled
inflation uh from food retail. What has
been happening this year until recently
is fuel prices have been subdued. Uh
food prices until recently have not been
a particularly big problem. But durable
goods prices have gone from falling to
rising. And so you've got the reverse
problem there that you've got inflation
that people are not necessarily so aware
of. But what we've been seeing more
recently in the states is food price
inflation has been ticking up. You
things like the price of beef for
example uh has gone up very very
dramatically. Coffee prices are soaring
and that is going to be more visible.
So, I think the noise from consumers
about inflation, the the political
anxiety about inflation is likely to be
ramping up as we see these higher food
prices starting to emerge.
>> Paul, this was great. Lots to think
about and hopefully we can do this
again. Paul Donovan there of UBS on the
economic situation, distorted data and
the consumer experience of this economy
at the moment. Check this out. Got a
stock moving for you. Breaking news just
moments ago. AMD with a 20% move in the
pre-market inking a deal with OpenAI to
roll out AI infrastructure in a pack the
chipmaker is saying this morning could
generate tens of billions of dollars in
new revenue.
>> This comes after Nvidia's connection
with Open AI and their huge investment
where they are essentially selling chips
at a discount to open AAI to uh engage
with certain different types of
programming and uh machine learning
technologies. is it just keeps AMD in
the mix. This is sort of the bar for
AMD. It keeps it on a level playing
field with the likes of Nvidia and it's
the reason why you're seeing Intel
shares actually lose a little bit
because maybe it puts them a bit on the
back foot. When are they going to ink
their billion dollar deal with uh Open
AI?
>> Just how much are we leveraging the
success of this equity market? Not to
Nvidia, but to that one name that's not
even in public equity markets.
>> Exactly. the $500 billion private market
company that has such incredible cloud
and so many dollars attached to it from
a lot of mega cap companies around the
world.
>> Unreal 22% move on AMD so far this
morning. More on that in just a moment.
Aaron Kennedy of Clear Harbor Asset
Management joins us. Henrietta Trace of
Vader Partners, David Steinberg of Zeta
Global, Amanda Linham of Black Rockck.
The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
The bigger concern in a prolonged
shutdown is the quality of that
inflation data.
>> October, I think the Fed's cutting even
if the shutdown lasts for a while.
>> This economy is becoming less sensitive
to the Fed's next move and much more
sensitive to what's happening in
Washington.
>> All of the polls show so far Republicans
getting a disproportionate amount of the
blame.
>> Both parties may ultimately suffer from
this. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg Surve starts right now. And
your scores look like this. All-time
high, 6 days, no losses. The S&P 500 up
again this morning by 0.3, up by 0.7 on
the NASDAQ. And this move in the
pre-market, a 20% move in the pre-market
on AMD off the back of this story from
Ian King here at Bloomberg. AMD inking a
deal with OpenAI to roll out AI
infrastructure.
>> Yeah, that's worth tens of billions of
dollars. And this comes after OpenAI has
inked deals with Oracle, with Nvidia,
with Microsoft, OpenAI, which pioneered
Chat GPT uh in 2022 that really launched
this move into AI. A real question, you
raised this last hour. I think it is the
takeaway question. How much is the
entire tech story increasingly levered
to open AI given how quickly it's risen
and how much money has been invested
with it?
>> Such an interesting moment living this
in real time and trying to work out how
we'll look back on say this program in 5
years time looking back 5 years whether
it is really the fourth industrial
revolution or as our next guest is
speculating whether it is peak
exuberance.
>> Yeah, especially at a time where it
comes with other capital market
activity. Earlier this morning we were
talking about uh first republic or uh
fifth third bank buying coma. This idea
of mergers and acquisitions picking up
this exuberance around the globe. This
sense of the money printer going even
amid a lot of questions around
government functioning as well as just
what the longer term trajectory really
is.
>> This is such a fascinating time to be
tracking these stories. You know, Rick
Reader of Black Rockck said recently, he
said this a few times, the most
interesting time in his whole career in
financial markets. It's not just tech,
it's cross asset, it's global. Check
this out. the move in Euro dollar today,
the move in dollar yen today, the move
we're seeing in the Japanese government
bond market, the French government bond
market, new leadership in Japan, a lack
of leadership in France,
>> and all of it is leading to a real
question around bond yields long-term
and how much they potentially could rise
given the fact that a lot of countries
don't have the ability or willingness to
pay back a lot of the deficits. And it
raises this larger question especially
as we look at gold and we were talking
with Dan Striven earlier about just how
much that precious metal could
potentially rally. Are we moving to a
new era talking about big philosophical
questions where the industrial world
actually gives the returns that the
monetary world gave over the past four
decades? Is that what people are looking
at given the fact that there is a lack
of conviction that developed markets can
really provide the same type of haven
for uh people's capital
>> gold this morning this far away from 4K
3940 so far this morning coming up this
hour a calendar of clear harbor asset
management with stocks on a six-day
winning streak Henri trays of Vader
partners as the shutdown deadlock
stretches into a second week and Amanda
Linham of Black Rockck as fiscal risk is
unleashed in Japan and France we begin
this hour with stocks at alltime highs
Aaron Kennon of Clear Harbor Asset
Management writing, "US tech's way has
climbed to dotcom era highs with debates
raging of whether we are in the early
innings of the fourth industrial
revolution or near peak exuberance."
Aaron joins us now for more. Aaron,
welcome to the program. Your words,
you're posing the question. Help me
answer it. Peak exuberance or the fourth
industrial revolution?
I I think we're certainly if you look at
the capex spend um analysts are are
hesitant Jonathan to even look out more
than 12 to 24 months and and I think the
reality is the the AI boom is is real.
It's not going to be a question around
hundreds of trillion hundreds of
billions of dollars of capex but rather
trillions and it's not a question of
just how it's going to impact the
hyperscalers the large language models
like open AI but in my opinion and our
opinion here at Clear Harbor it's really
going to impact and benefit multiple
sectors of of the US and the global
economy not just technology but
utilities not just industrials but
healthcare and there there there's um
you know a race to bring electrons, more
electricity generation in this country
and all of the companies and all the
sectors that are are involved with that.
And uh and we we we hear a lot about
nuclear for example trying to sort of uh
play an important role in bringing those
electrons online, but we think that uh
commercial solar still has a role to
play here because that's the fastest way
to do that. So, um, lots of opportunity
for productivity gains and ultimately
maybe a surprise to the upside and
growth over the next several years.
>> And lots of play here, the finance, the
capital providers, the energy providers
together with the tech players. It's all
becoming one sector, but we've been
conditioned by the late '90s. Aaron, I
think a lot of people still conditioned
by that that a mass misallocation of
capital comes before you identify the
long-term winners. And how do you
navigate the risks around that in the
years to come?
>> Well, well, it's interesting. I mean
certainly there needs to be an attention
to capital and earnings and free cash
flow but there really is to a great
extent if you look at the late you know
1990s or really March of 2000 at the
peak you look at the trailing PE
multiple of of uh the the NASDAQ that
was trading at probably 185 times
multiple. Well the NASDAQ today on a
trailing basis is trading in the 30s and
on a forward basis trading in the mid to
high 20s multiple. If you look at sort
of the earnings that were generated from
the NASDAQ at the peak, March of 2000,
it represented uh about 4% of all US
listed companies. The total earnings of
the NASDAQ in March of 2000. Now we we
we look at in the market cap was 40%.
of of of the entire listed market cap.
Today the market cap of the NASDAQ is
about a third of all US listed
companies. And yet the earnings that
they're generating relative to all
listed US companies is about 40%. So I I
I think you know that ultimately comes
down to the PE multiple. Now there's
concentration in those names within
technology today representing the NASDAQ
and we have to be very mindful of that.
The Nvidia, the Microsofts, the
Alphabets. Um and so that that's
certainly something we need to be
mindful of but the valuation picture is
very different today. I want to pick up
on the concentration risk, especially
given the conversation that John and I
were just having about this deal with
OpenAI and AMD and this question around
if we're looking at a very different
type of systemic risk this time around.
What is a sort of interconnectedness of
all of these companies? Should there be
a problem with one of them?
>> Well, it's a good question. I mean, I
think that the technologies are unique.
They're not they're not um AMD. I think
the question to a great extent maybe or
at least we're thinking about this is to
what extent does the efficiency of large
language models evolve so quickly and so
dramatically in ways we can't comprehend
that the demand for the hyperscalers for
the AMD chips for the Nvidia products
and and chips for Broadcom's chip that
that demand somehow surprises to the
downside not because there isn't growth
in massive opportunity that I just
outlined but because of the efficiency
that's brought to bear and I think
that's a huge question right now
>> at this point it seems clear that the uh
technology story is one that people can
get behind is it something that makes
you able to just ignore what's going on
globally with the fiscal dysfunction
that we're seeing around the world I
mean how connected are these two stories
on one hand we're talking about a sea
change in technology that's going to get
make us all live forever and and uh and
make our lives fantastic and then we're
talking about the fact that governments
are collapsing so which how do you put
these two together.
>> Yeah, I think we have to keep our eyes
on the the economic uh reality of the
global economy. I think geopolitics have
been with us for a long time, the
uncertainty factor. We've had shutdowns
before. We've had changes of a prime
minister in Japan in the past. We've had
assassinations. Now we have, you know,
what's going on in France in terms of a
lack of a government. But if you look at
what's happening in Europe, for example,
for the first time in my lifetime, their
deficit spending to rearm their country,
to build infrastructure, that has huge
positive tailwinds for Europe. This has
been the story of 2025. I know I sound
like a broken record, but I think there
there needs to be a greater awareness of
that. If you look at Mr. and Mrs.
Watanabe, the saver in Japan in a rising
interest rate environment in an
incrementally stronger Japanese yen year
to date, although there's argument
whether or not that's going to continue
to weaken further over the next several
months with the new leadership at hand.
But those assets, that capital that was
once domesticated in 20 in 1980s and
1970s and into 1990 was sent overseas is
being brought home. And now
international investors see the
opportunity set not just because of what
Japanese savers are doing, investors are
doing, but you look at the regulatory
environment in a place like Japan where
return on equity is once again the focal
point of corporate Japan where buybacks
and dividends are happening. There are
opportunity sets all over um all over
the developed world, but they're also in
the emerging markets where you can see
China what's what's China doing? They
realize they can't flood the US markets
because we now have tariffs in place.
They're trying to flood the European
markets. That may become a problem as
European policy makers raise tariffs as
well. So, they're flooding the EM
markets to even a greater extent. that
could boost uh currencies in EM in
places like South Africa, Turkey, Brazil
and and other places could also boost um
the bond market prices there, lower
yields in those and it could augur
higher asset prices in those regions.
So, there's a lot at play here and
everything to your point, Lisa, is
connected to everything.
>> And I just want to unpack one piece of
what you just said and it was the
Japanese piece of it. If that money is
truly going home and will go home, that
creates opportunities in Japan.
introduces vulnerabilities in other
places. Where's the money coming from?
Who's vulnerable?
>> Yeah, it's interesting. It it it's it's
it's not really em um it could be on the
margin places like New Zealand, places
like Australia where there there's more
of a significant impact. Of course, the
United States, right, the US Treasury
purchases in Japan the early 2000s were
were extraordinarily high. Could be in
Europe as well. So certainly we're going
to need to find ways to to fund our our
deficits. Our deficit spending is out of
control in the United States. 120% debt
to GDP. We're running 7% type deficit
spending. But in Germany, we're 65% debt
to GDP and their deficit spending there.
So they have a little more wiggle room
relative to the United States. But
certainly a challenge. Jonathan
>> Aaron Kenned of Clear Harbor Asset
Management. Aaron, thank you sir.
Appreciate it. You'll hear lots about
concentration risk. A lot of these bets
are very concentrated around the same
thing.
>> Yeah. Well, especially given the fact
that they all are betting the AI can
come over, overwhelm the productivity
side of the story. So, it's going to
mean inflation isn't going to go up that
much, can overwhelm any kind of
questions around dysfunction in
governments. I love this. You know, if
you're really pessimistic about what
you're seeing in the government, if
you're really pessimistic when you read
the news headlines, just look at the S&P
500 and feel good. Take a look at
Nvidia. Take a look at OpenAI. That warm
fuzzy feeling comes roaring back.
There's something for both the optimist
and the pessimists alike because
everything's become so concentrated.
You're potentially exacerbating downside
risk. This is also a chip in the
geopolitical negotiations between China
and the United States as well. Do you
have to think about that as a potential
factor too? All of this stuff is just
layer upon layer. I mentioned the sector
story, banks and energy and tech. Those
three things, I know this is a stretch,
but they are becoming almost the same
trade at the moment.
>> Absolutely they are. Because take a look
at JP Morgan when they talk about being
a tech company and how much they're
investing in the technology that could
potentially make them much more
efficient, keep the same footprint of
personnel, but expand their book of
business. We hear the same thing at Bank
of America, the same thing at other big
banks at the same time, energy. How much
are people pouring billions upon
billions of dollars into nuclear power
plants and beyond? You put all this
together and you can either get on the
train of optimism, you could ride the
train of optimism or you could fight
against it, get a bar of gold, sit in
your room with a bad look on your face
and that's what some people are doing as
well
>> or chase tech stocks 100 futures right
now up by 0.6%. The gains continue.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
What a start to the week. Here's your
Hierra. Hey yra.
>> Exactly John. We are seeing a monster
move in AMD shares up more than 27% in
the pre-market following news it signed
a deal with Open AI. OpenAI will deploy
6 gawatt of AMD GPUs over multiple
years. The deal is expected to deliver
tens of billions of dollars in revenue
for AMD while accelerating OpenAI's
infrastructure buildout. Meanwhile,
shares of Comracle also soaring more
than nearly 12% in the pre-market. Fifth
Third will acquire Comra in an all stock
transaction valued at $10.9 billion.
It's the latest sign. Regional banks are
looking to take advantage of the new
deregulatory environment under President
Trump. The deal is expected to close at
the end of the first quarter of 2026.
And Boeing is hoping to increase its
manufacturing output as soon as this
month. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that 737 max output could
reach 42 jets monthly. The company is
also laying the groundwork to increase
its manufacturing pace again in April
and in late 2026, which could boost
production to about 53 jets a month.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, neither side is blinking.
>> I think that if the president decides
that the negotiations are absolutely
going nowhere, that there, you know,
there will start to be layoffs. But I
think that everybody's still hopeful.
>> That conversation up next with Henry
Trace of Vader Partners live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
We might be light on economic data again
this week. So, look out for a couple of
things on the economy. Look out for
Delta. It's not going to be a read on
the complete economy, but particularly
the high-end consumer and how they're
flying, and they're flying a lot. Delta
Raillights, that comes out on Thursday.
And look out for the Fed minutes on
Wednesday. We know based on the
communication so far, there is a massive
divide on the FCC going into month end.
What does it mean for policy and the
next move? That's your week ahead right
there. Here's your day ahead. Stocks are
up on the S&P 500 once again, up by
0.3%. The advance continues. Six days,
no losses. It's day seven. It might be
the same story on the NASDAQ 100 by 0.6.
On a Russell, up by 0.5. This market is
not preoccupied with the latest down in
Washington DC. Under surveillance this
morning, neither side is blinking.
I think that if the president decides
that the negotiations are absolutely
going nowhere, that there, you know,
there will start to be layoffs. But I
think that everybody's still hopeful
that when we get a fresh start at the
beginning of the week that we can get
the Democrats to see that it's just
common sense to avoid layoffs like that.
I think that we think the Democrats
there's a chance that they'll be
reasonable. So here's the latest this
morning. The White House threatening
mass layoffs as the government shutdown
heads into its sixth day. Joining us now
is Bloomberg's Laura Davidson. Laura, I
had a feeling we'd be talking Monday
morning about the same thing all over
again. Here we are. The shutdown
continues. Do you see any sign of a
breakthrough
>> right now? Uh there was basically no
movement over the weekend. Um as we head
into this week, um there are a couple
things that could potentially start to
move uh uh feelings one way or another.
One is um those layoffs and if the White
House makes good on that threat, which
so far they have sort of held off of
doing that, you could potentially see
some Democrats uh you know, wanting to
end the shutdown sooner rather than
later. The other piece of information uh
that came from Politico this morning is
that there are some White House aids um
that are very concerned about their
position on the ACA subsidies. You
remember this is Democrats big ask in
this. They want to renew these Obamacare
um tax credits uh that expire at the end
of the year or else people will see
large spikes in in premium rates. Um and
that you have some Republicans who are
close to Trump who are who are saying
that this position is untenable and they
actually need to support this uh which
would be which is what Democrats want to
do. So there's um there's a couple
different pieces here. Right now, both
sides think they have the upper hand.
Polling is quite split. So, it could
take several weeks before we really um
get to see where the public sentiment is
on which side they blame, and that could
mean that we're still in a shutdown, you
know, here several weeks from now.
>> Laura, I think it was Speaker Johnson
over the weekend that tried to make the
point that this is not about making good
policy in Washington. This is just about
minority leader Chuck Schumer trying to
secure his political future. What's the
reaction down in Washington to that?
>> Um, this is something that Democrats
have really rejected and pushed back on.
Um, you know, one of the things that
that Republicans have brought up is
that, you know, he's very worried about
a primary race from um from the left,
you know, someone like Alexandria Ocadia
Cortez. Uh, but this is um, you know,
really kind of the entire Democratic
party, at least for now, is behind
Schumer and saying, "Look, the lesson we
learned from 2024 is that we don't fight
hard enough. This is our opportunity to
fight and get a key policy win that we
want."
>> Laura, appreciate the update. Thanks for
joining us. Bloomberg's Laura Davidson
there down in Washington DC. To build on
that conversation, Henrietta Trace of
Vader Partners joins us now for more.
Henrietta, welcome to the program. The
politics of old would suggest that this
doesn't last very long. Is that the
wrong way of looking at this current
situation?
>> That is a fair question. I think we're
probably going to already be able to say
that this week is a lost cause. I know
that they're not even back in DC yet.
Nobody's voted yet again this week, but
I don't see movement happening this
week. We're probably going to be going
into uh the week of the 15th at this
juncture. Henriita, do you think that
ultimately this is going to look worse
on one party or the other or do you
think that ultimately people don't care?
They won't care unless there are some
sort of mass layoff moves. You know, I
think that's interesting. So, with the
president, he's got a basket of support
is 38% or so of the American electorate
that just will not ever break free of
the president. So, he's going to be able
to shore up that basket. And that keeps
him on his same trajectory of shutting
the government down and using executive
authority to, you know, go into
Portland, go into Illinois, and do a lot
of things that are very aggressive, but
nonetheless will not lose his base. And
then you have the Democratic side who
their own conference is so mad at them
that there's almost no pain because
they're already so mad in the first
place. So, you might as well just try to
change something up. So they're they
have conflicting rationes for both
staying the course. Trump keeping the
government shut down and Democrats
trying something new and different and
that's what they're doing here. It
strikes me Henrietta that we're talking
about a government shutdown at a time
where there's a lot of potential uh
noise and action on the foreign policy
point of view and I'm thinking about yes
Israel and um and Hamas but also what's
going on with Russia and Ukraine. The
Supreme Court is also going to
potentially be ruling on the tariffs
this week. Supreme Court comes back
after its recess and is probably going
to vote on a number of these matters.
How does that add to the complication of
the government being shut down in this
period?
>> Yeah. Well, again, it's all these three
items that are eligible for executive
action. That's what the president's
done. It's been our rationale for having
such a strong and robust call on the
president taking these tariff actions
that he promised on the campaign trail
seriously. He can do all this without
Congress for now. So this when I look at
these data sets about whether it's
Russia, whether it's uh Israel, whether
it's the tariffs specifically, I look at
what are the American public's top three
issues and they're the economy,
inflation, and healthcare. And every
single one of those items the president
is underwater on. So Americans famously
don't follow foreign policy. It's
interesting to niche groups of the
American public who feel uniquely
impacted or otherwise following the
Russia Ukraine situation, but most
Americans literally just don't follow
foreign policy. You see it time and
again. So those three major items, the
economy, inflation, and healthcare are
where we should concentrate, and the
president is material underwater on all
three. And the Democrats are seizing on
healthcare to try to get out of this uh
government shutdown situation. Do you
think that Republicans could join them
given the fact that this is an area
where there might be some openness to
gain to curry favor with the population?
>> I think so. On healthcare, those
subsidies cannot expire. They
disproportionately go to red states. Um,
and you have members of the United
States Senate like Tommy Tuberville who
are running for statewide office in a
state like Alabama that takes a
tremendous amount of those subsidies and
they need to vote for it. So, I think
given the opportunity to put this uh
Democratic position of extending the ACA
subsidies on the floor, it would pass.
Uh indeed, my my colleague Spencer
Pearlman, who are our healthcare expert,
has 75% odds that they'll pass by the
end of the year. I think that's exactly
correct. The whip count is strong for
that position.
>> And do you think we're beginning to
frame the midterm debate? Is this
ultimately what it's going to sound
like?
>> There's still some infighting amongst
Democrats about whether or not they want
to just prioritize healthcare, which has
historically been sufficient to get them
some gains. But I would, you know,
really say that there's a fight brewing
at the Ways and Means Committee and
other key decision-making factors to say
where are we going to go with tariffs?
What is the Democratic position on
tariffs? They've got to get one. Uh it
is a 6040, sometimes even 7030 issue
that the president is on the wrong side
of. Americans know that tariffs are
taxes and they don't like them. So I,
you know, I've said this before, y'all,
if you're raising the cost of beer, it's
a pretty easy campaign message. But
Democrats aren't really unified around
what they want to do on tariffs yet.
We'll see if they get there.
>> Do the politics lead ultimately to
rebates to use that money from tariffs
and give it back to the consumers ahead
of the midterms?
>> That's really expensive. So the rebates
that the president authorized in his
first term cost $289 billion if I'm not
mistaken. That's more than the revenue
that's come in from tariffs so far. So I
think the bond market would react very
negatively to that. I don't think you
have the votes, but if we get a
reconciliation bill, which I put 30%
odds on, you can bet that'll be a part
of the discussion. We're going to get
farmers bailout, but maybe not a rebate
check.
>> Henrietta, thank you. Henrietta Trace
Aveda Partners, thank you very much.
Now, if you're a bond bull, you might
like the tariffs now in a way that you
didn't back in April. Sure, the Treasury
Secretary is pleased with the revenue
and what it means for the deficit. All
of those things over the next 12 months,
but as you get closer and closer to the
midterms, the conversation can become
illogical when it comes to these kind of
things because of the politics. Yeah,
and if you start act talking about
rebates, not only is it expensive when
it comes to the expenditure side of the
balance sheet, but guess what? It's
going to cause some sort of boost to
inflation, even without that. Torsson
put this out just moments ago that it's
beginning to look like 2021, even
without the rebate checks, talking about
annualized month-over-month growth
rates, showing that 60% of the items in
the CPI basket are growing faster than
3%. So that inflationary pressure
already there even without that kind of
turbocharging from uh from from rebates
on the tariffs.
>> Next time we get inflation data, no idea
when that is, but next time it may well
have a three handle going into year end.
>> And do people care? And I'm talking
about the Fed. They're the people who we
actually care about given the fact that
they're probably going to cut rates at
least two more times this year.
>> They meet at the end of the month. Up
next on the program, David Steinberg of
Zeta Global finding alternative figures
in a data vacuum. Plus, Danny has your
morning movers. AMD absolutely surging
higher by 23% in the pre-market.
[Music]
The rally resumes. It continues high by
a third of 1% on the S&P 500 on the
NASDAQ 100. Up again this morning by
0.65.
Tons of movers out there. Let's get a
few your morning movers with Danny Ber.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. And it's another day, another
AI infrastructure deal. This time
between Open AI and AMD. You can see AM
AMD up 24.3%.
The competition, Intel, for example,
shares did move lower off the back of
that news. Nvidia also trading down by
1.8%. AMD saying that this would give
them tens of billions of dollars in
revenue. So, you can see just why that's
having such an impact on stocks.
Elsewhere in the market this morning,
sources telling Bloomberg that Boeing
plans to up the pace of its jet output,
spec specifically looking at 42 jets a
month starting this month and by the end
of next year getting to a place where
they're at 53 jets a month. That is a
big output hike and it also underscores
the fact that they're getting more
control over their processes. So that's
a 7/10enth of a percent rise for them.
Finally, the other bit of breaking news
that's moving shares this morning, Fifth
Third Bank Corp. buying co America a
$10.9 billion deal. It would give them
$288 billion in assets as well. So
putting them over that $250 billion
threshold, making it more easy to
compete with the banking giants, giving
them more exposure in the southwest in
places like California and Texas. So
fifth shares are off about 4% while
America jumps just under 12%. John
>> Danny, thanks. Thanks for the update.
More from Danny in the next hour. More
on that deal right now with Herman Chad,
senior analyst for US regional banks at
Bloomberg Intelligence. Herman, you've
been talking about it for years. We've
been having that conversation with you.
It's coming. It's coming. These guys are
going to get together. Here it is. How
widely expected was this particular
tie-up?
>> Yeah. So, this deal actually reinforces
the fact that larger Midwest regional
banks are expanding into higher growth
markets. You've seen this with PNC in
the first bank transaction. You've seen
this with Huntington in Ohio, expanding
into Texas with Veritex, and this is a
continuation of that. Fifth Third, uh
based in Cincinnati, going into uh
California in Texas. Um Commer has been
rumored to be to be on the on the market
to to sell itself over the past several
quarters considering the fact that some
of its uh it its position with its
interest rates hasn't been as the best
positioned. And so there's been a lot of
scutterbutt in terms of activist
investors pushing comic growth for a
sale.
>> And based on what we've heard, there's
more to come. What kind of banks which
banks are you focused on now given the
track record of the year so far?
>> Yeah, I guess the the the question is
squarely what's next for a bank like
Keycorp that that's also based in Ohio
in the Midwest. You've seen it its
rivals in Ohio expanding. And so the
question I think on the next uh 3Q
earnings call is h how welcome are they
for a potential transaction going
forward?
>> Herman Chan of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Herman, thanks for jumping on. Busy
morning for you. I know Herman Chan
there following this deal for third to
America for 82.88 per share. A deal
valued at $10.9 billion. First thing you
talked about when this deal came out
early this morning. Bremo capital
markets activity M&A all of these
things. These banks are very very busy
this year. That activity they've been
talking up for a long time is actually
starting to build up big time.
>> Yeah. And if Jeff is any clue as to what
to expect when JP Morgan kicks off
earnings next week, you can imagine they
had record revenue from their deals uh
their deals unit because of this kind of
activity. Specifically with the banks,
we saw PNC, we saw Pinnacle uh combining
with Cineis. So we've seen a host of
this type of action. How much more to
come? And what's the main motivating
driver? Is it that the market's open? Is
it because the regulatory environment is
good? Or is it because ultimately they
have to at a time where they want to be
the leader even if it's in middle market
or larger companies that maybe don't get
the same kind of white glove service at
the biggest banks in the world.
>> M&A debt supply in September was through
the roof as well. The pipeline, how many
times have we heard the pipeline is
full? It's full and we're waiting. We
were like, "Yeah, okay. All right. Keep
on talking." And now we're really seeing
it.
>> Yeah. And this also coming from the
Financial Times right now that Carile is
nearing a $7 billion deal for BASF
codings unit. So even the private equity
firms getting in on the game. Capital
markets roaring. So financial
conditions, let's ease them more. This
raises a question of what the purpose is
for the Fed or whether markets have
already frontloaded all of those rate
cuts and that's essentially what you're
seeing right now in the markets.
>> The door is open and regulators
potentially greasing that door a little
bit over the last year. Coma high up by
12.3% at the pre-market. On our radar
this morning, three big stories. French
stocks are down after Prime Minister
Sebastian Lornu's resignation deepening
the country's political crisis. Over in
Japan, Say Takayichi's victory sending
stocks surging of the yen falling
against the US dollar. Elsewhere, AMD
inking a deal with OpenAI to roll out AI
infrastructure in a deal that could
generate tens of billions of dollars in
new revenue. AMD given OpenAI a warrant
for up to 160 million shares. And
finally, the shutdown rolling into its
second week. unions representing
thousands of federal workers asking a
judge to block possible mass firings by
the Trump administration. The disruption
also delaying economic reports and data
collection. Let's stick with the data.
The lack of government figures forcing
Wall Street to turn to alternative
sources. These data economic index and
AIPAD real-time consumer analysis tool
finding the economy is holding up better
than expected despite mixed signals. In
September, the US economy showed
resilience. David Steinberg, the
co-founder and chairman and CEO of Zeta,
joins us now for more. David, welcome to
the program, sir. Thanks for making some
time for us. Let's just talk about your
indicator. What are you tracking? One,
and I know there's many things you're
tracking, and two, what's it telling
you?
>> Well, first of all, thank you for having
me, Jonathan. We we are looking in real
time at 242 million Americans. What are
they researching? What are they buying?
Where are they going? Everything that
they do. and we feed that into this
index to build a score to see what we
believe the health of the US economy is.
It then goes into different categories
everything from retail to automotive and
you know we believe the Zeta economic
index is the best view into the
consumer-driven US economy. We've seen a
lot of rumors, speculation that the
labor market is uh falling off quite
considerably and that was really built
on with the non-farm payrolls that we
got in August. Does your data indicate a
different picture?
>> You know, it indicates that there are
some categories where we're going to see
some job slipping, but we're also seeing
hiring. Uh we've seen the consumer as it
relates to spending be very resilient.
Uh by way of example, our our economic
stability index was flat month over
month into September, which is a very
good sign that consumers are feeling
comfortable to spend.
>> How much are you parsing out the
consumer as it relates to the upper
income versus the middle income versus
the lower income? In other words, the
consumer being the wealthier
individuals, especially with the stock
market on a new tear every single day.
Yes, they're spending. They're going to
the front of the cabin. We're going to
see that with Delta on Thursday. But at
what point is this really a global kind
of up uh you know rising up of all of
the potential tiers of income earners.
>> That's a a really good question. Uh so
we do see the wealthy driving the vast
majority of spending. So if you look at
the top 10% of us from a wealth
perspective, they continue to drive a
disproportionate percentage of spend.
But we're not seeing a massive slowdown
towards the bottom. It's just sort of
it's always been low and it it stays
low. What we are seeing uh the big
difference over the last few months is
we're seeing a lot more spending going
to essential items and less spending to
luxury items. And I think that's even
affecting the wealthy. Listen, as you
guys have been saying on the program,
there's a lot of uncertainty out there.
What's the Fed going to do? Job data is
being revised down. Budgets, tariffs.
You know, people, I think, continue to
be nervous about risk for big ticket
items. And I think that's causing a
little constrnation with uh even the
wealthy, but but to your question, the
wealthy continue to spend at a a very
high pace.
>> David, especially given the fact that
you're saying people are spending more
on essentials, it raises a question
about inflation. Given the fact that a
lot of people have sort of dismissed
this even if we have inflation above 2%
for a fifth straight year, people are
saying that isn't going to be the main
driver. Are you saying that actually
there is enough spending power and
resilience, especially if there is more
certainty for inflation to become much
more of a consideration? Does your data
track that?
>> Uh, we don't track that per. It's a good
question. We could probably add it as an
indication point as we look at our data.
We just did the largest acquisition in
our company's history. We announced it
last week buying Maragold specifically
to get additional data points so we can
answer questions like this in addition
to the operations of that business. But
what I would say is it to me and from
our data appears as if most consumers at
this point continue to look through
inflation and continue to spend and you
know our the economic index as I said
would put sort of GDP growth at a 2 to
3% growth rate. That that that does not
totally take into effect how long a
government shutdown could be and what
type of uncertainty would come from
that. David, as I'm sure you know, the
economy is changing somewhat and the
contribution of a handful of tech CEOs
is certainly rising based on the
announcements we've seen over this year
alone. Can you tell us how traditionally
your index would correlate with say
broader GDP and whether that might
change given the contributions coming
from elsewhere now?
Yeah, I mean there's no question we're
starting to see infrastructure spending
as a part of GDP go up and we do track
that because we're we have a B2B
component to the uh Zeta economic index
as well that's looking at all of these
infrastructure purchases. So you know
whereas the economy has always been sort
of 66 to 70% consumer spending 15 20%
corporate and then the balance is
government uh we're we're seeing
corporate go up exponentially and a lot
of that I think is coming in
infrastructure that will be a part of
GDP growth and I think it might be part
Jonathan to your your question I think
it might be part of the surprise to the
upside last quarter on GDP
>> interesting I imagine you've been busier
over the last week is that Well, you
know, we uh you know, doing our biggest
deal in trying to get this report done
and then we have our big our our annual
conference. We have 2,000 people coming
to New York this week. Uh it's for this
for Zeta Live. It's been uh been a crazy
period for us.
>> Well, best of luck. No doubt we'll catch
up again soon. David, thank you, sir.
David Steinberg there of Zeta Global.
People are starved of data at the
moment. I imagine David's been busy and
it certainly looks like he has been.
Yeah, because ultimately people are
going to look anywhere they can for the
signals, the noise, the si something to
give a sense of what to trade on. Torson
Slack, I was mentioning him earlier, put
out a a book of all of the potential
alternative sources. Open table,
Bloomberg data, red book data, Fed
weekly data, Broadway shows.
>> Yeah, exactly. Broadway shows. These are
the types of peripheral data points that
people are using increasingly because
guess what? There's nothing else.
>> I saw that note over the weekend. It's
amazing to just puts all that out. It's
on a website. It's fantastic. I mean,
honestly, it's really uh valuable. Just
especially looking through this weekly
Broadway show attendance is actually,
you know, kind of fluctuated, but it's
actually on the rise and I went to
>> supporting it. I been supporting it.
I've actually really enjoyed it.
>> I have not.
>> Well, well, then it's just not my thing.
>> You have not. Well, have you gone?
>> I've been before. Yeah.
>> Recently?
>> No, been a long time. I watched Hamilton
years ago,
>> which was actually very good, but it's
still not my thing.
>> So, I agree that in general, I don't
like the nostalgia shows. I like the
ones that are kind of new and quirky and
there are a lot of really new and quirky
and interesting ones out there.
>> This might not be a popular opinion. I
don't like the singing. It makes me feel
uncomfortable. I don't like sing alongs.
I don't like any of those things.
>> It's actually not that unpopular. I
think a lot of people would agree with
you and applaud you.
>> Not a fan of that. If I'm watching a
movie and they break out into song, I'm
>> Why do you have to do that?
>> You're not an ABA kind of guy.
>> No, no, no, no. I I like cabin music. I
just don't need the movie theater
singing it. Okay. All right. Future's up
on the S&P by a third of 1%. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Japan's ruling Conservative
Party has elected Sana Takayichi as its
new leader. She is a former government
minister, TV host, and avid heavy muk
metal drummer who has long admired
Britain's Margaret Thatcher. The yen
weekend, and Japanese long bond yields
climbed after Takahuchi's election,
which fueled expectations of continued
policy easing. Meanwhile, Aston Martin
shares are falling in London trade down
at 7.22%
after cutting its outlook for the second
time this year. Tariffs and falling
demand in North America and Asia are
weighing on the British car maker. Aston
Martin said saying it launched a broad
spending review, a move that could delay
and reshape upcoming models. And in
sports, the MLB divisional round this
weekend saw the Blue Jays jump to a
dominant 2-0 series lead over the
Yankees with two highscoring victories.
Meanwhile, the Mariners and Tigers are
tied 1 to1 after Julio Rodriguez's
heroics gave Seattle its first home
playoff win in 24 years. In the NL, both
the Brewers and Dodgers hold one and0
advantages as they head into game two
tonight. Digberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Look who isn't here.
Yeah, she's mourning them. I mean,
ultimately, I think that's the reason
why this is an empty seat.
>> Just an empty space where Amarie once
was.
>> And guess what? Her mug is gone.
>> I know. It's all pretty sad, isn't it?
>> Her Yankees mug disappeared.
>> I think she's back tomorrow. I can't
confirm whether this is unrelated. All
right, up next, a global phenomenon.
I think this is an issue that is is a
global phenomenon and one where there's
a lot of longerterm momentum towards
towards weaker fiscal positions. This is
a situation where in some levels this
could work to credits advantage. That
conversation up next with Amanda Linham
of Black Rockck from New York City. This
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
new leadership in Japan. Look at this
move off the back of that. 5% almost 5%
higher than EK225. Dolly yen up by 1.9%
150 30. How pro- stimulus is Takayichi
and how constrained will she be by this
market and potentially other things too?
>> Yeah. And there's one other question and
you raised this earlier. How much
control did she have over the bank of
Japan? Because they were ostensibly
going to raise rates at their next
meeting and now people are pricing that
out because of her leadership. So what
is the connection there at a time when
people are talking about independent
central banks?
>> The OJ came along for the ride with
Arbe.
>> Yeah. But as Jordan Rochester of Deura
pointed out back then the inflation rate
was in a very very different place.
Let's just put it that way.
>> I also wonder how much when you start
getting these stories in a vacuum it
wouldn't be that significance because
the the inflation rate isn't run away in
Japan by any means but when you take it
holistically and this question of if
every developed market government is
spending with profacy without any sense
of restraint how does that change the
global yield market? Dolly Yen 15029.
Let's talk about the global yield market
under surveillance this morning. A
global phenomenon.
>> I think this is an issue that is is a
global phenomenon and one where there's
a lot of longerterm momentum towards
towards weaker fiscal positions. The US
is running a deficit of 6 12% of GDP.
Japan appears to be looking at more
fiscal easing. The French budget is is
in a challenging state. Um and and the
UK is clearly in focus. This is a
situation where in some levels this
could work to credit's advantage.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Global yields moving higher as a pro-
stimulus leader is elected in Japan and
French prime minister Sebastian Lornu
resigns after just a month on the job.
Amanda Linham of Black Rockck joins us
now for more. Amanda, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thank you for having me.
>> Andrew Sheets of Morgan Stanley there.
He was talking about credit spreads and
he was saying that essentially that
tells you more about maybe more about
what's happening with the sovereign than
it does with corporate credit. Would you
agree with that? I I would push back a
little bit on the view that um the
fiscal situation globally is shining a
spotlight on kind of credits being a
better risk. Um I think it's absolutely
true that credit is fundamentally in a
good place. I don't disagree with his
conclusion, however, that it could be
good for credit because of the yield
backdrop. And I think that's the
distinction is that higher yields, so
long as they don't become disorderly,
unleash a wave of technical yield-based
demand in corporate credit. and there's
a limited pot for for for those
investors to deploy capital. And so I
think on net structurally higher rates
across the globe actually does support
de yield-based demand for corporate
credit. I think it just reinforces one
of the points that we've been making
which is if you are allocating to
corporate credit you should be doing
that for yield and income and carry not
because you expect a total return boost
from tighter spreads because they're
already tight and not because you expect
a total return boost from lower rates
because we don't see scope for that much
either. There have been some credit
events and we should probably talk about
them. The risk is all around sovereigns
in that conversation, but first Brand is
one, is another. Can we just sit here
and say they're both idiosyncratic or is
there something bigger happening here?
>> So, I think quietly the default rate has
actually been on the decline in
aggregate and we actually think we're
the peak of defaults is behind us.
Absolutely. There have been some
idiosyncratic situations. I would say
not even idiosyncratic but um common
themes and pockets of stress. the
subprime consumer among them
overleveraged capital structures. I
think it's hard for us to see making a
new peak in defaults when we see
actually fiscal uh or excuse me
borrowing costs become somewhat more uh
uh accommodative not easy but
accommodative and then also growth has
been uh pretty solid and actually is
there's scope for it to reacelerate in
2026. So I think with those two factors
it's hard to see a new peak in defaults.
Absolutely there are dispersion themes
under the surface. I think the key
question for investors is is that enough
to warrant a a riskoff defensive posture
full stop. We don't believe that it is
because if you actually look at the
performance of leverage finance, it's
actually been quite resilient despite
those default activities.
>> If maybe it's not necessarily riskoff,
but does it prevent one from being fully
risk? I'm looking for example if you're
just an all-in yield kind of buyer.
Well, triple C bonds are yielding right
now about 10% 9.9%. They've come out
substantially, but why not clip that
coupon?
>> I think your point is exactly what we've
been saying actually since early April.
We are comfortable selectively moving
down in credit quality, not chasing all
the way down into the left tales of
these markets, whether that's in liquid
credit or in private credit. Um, I think
unfortunately in the corporate credit
universe, there are still some capital
structures that haven't fully grown into
their debt capital structures um with
growth above trend over the past few
years. And so with growth now below
trend, it's hard to see why that
situation would become much easier for
them. But again, going back to the
point, um dispersion and volatility
under the surface isn't hasn't been
enough to derail overall performance.
And we expect that trend to remain in
place.
>> Is it better to go for all-in yields in
the private markets or in the public
markets given some of this vetting
process and this question around triple
C companies that might not have gotten
upgraded for a reason?
>> Sure. It depends on the the illquidity
profile of the investor. Can they take
that illquid risk or not? Um, I actually
think one of the things that you're
seeing over the past few years since the
pandemic is increased fluidity between
these markets. We're seeing the same
borrower tap public and private credit
market refinancing between the two
markets. So, they're not as siloed as
they used to be. Just like there's more
fluidity across investment grade and
high yield, there's actually more
fluidity across private and public
credit. We measure that in a few ways,
not least of which is the number of
jumbo loans that are issued in private
credit, meaning they're lending to
companies that could access the public
markets if they wanted to. Um, so there
is an ili liquidity premia to pick up in
private credit. It just depends on
whether the investor base is comfortable
not being holding that illquidity.
>> Are Japanese investors still really big
in this market right now?
>> Sure. I mean, uh, foreign investors own
25% of the corporate credit market. Um,
so but I think actually one of the areas
that has been notable, we talked about
this in our fourth quarter piece,
foreign demand is on track to rival 2023
and 2024 in terms of demand for US
corporate credit. So the concerns about
the loss of US exceptionalism that were
very dominant in the first quarter, they
haven't been borne out in the data and I
think that's a really important stat
when we think about just the structural
drivers of demand of US corporate
credit.
>> This is something we've reflected on
with Jordan Rochester. I mentioned him
earlier, not Neurora now, of course,
over at Missouo. We've been having this
conversation all year. As Japanese
yields continue to lift, is the money
actually going to go home?
>> Right.
>> You're saying it's not. Do you think it
will?
>> I think there's a delicate balance.
There's um there's just not a ton of
alternatives, frankly, for high quality
credit product. Um certainly the US
market is the largest, followed by
Europe, and then followed by Asia. Um
you also have a weaker yen, right? So if
in terms of balancing that trade-off
between yield and what's going on in the
currency, um I think investors
structurally will probably still heir on
the side of allocating to the US. On the
margin, the incremental dollar could go
home to Europe or to or to Japan, but I
I think in general that trend remains in
place.
>> Starts with eight, isn't it?
Exceptionalism. We're back to that again
at the end of the year.
>> Well, is it exceptionalism or is it not
as badism or there's no other place to
go ism? I mean at what point are we
talking about just collective
dysfunction and one place has a deep
market and companies that are actually
doing okay so why not go into them
>> can't replace the depth of it even the
gold conversation DT made a fantastic
point trying to diversify diversify away
from dollar denominated assets and
you're going to a gold market that has
nowhere near the depth of that market
>> which is a reason why on the margins he
said in September ETFs and retail
investors really were the drivers behind
some of the rally that has gone
parabolic I asked whether Bitcoin was a
precious metal or precious substance. He
wasn't going to entertain that. But I do
wonder how much that's at play just
because it can be a deeper market
because you can make it as big as you
want it to be.
>> I think we've had seven weeks of gains
on gold. The longest weekly winning
streak.
>> You don't even want to say the word
Bitcoin.
>> Beginning of the year. I can say the
word Bitcoin. No problem saying Bitcoin
at all. He didn't want to say it.
>> He didn't want to say it. So, would you
agree that it's something to pay
attention to?
>> I think it's a similar story. He was
making the point that one was more
correlated with risk than the other. But
so far this year, everything is up and
to the right. gold, Bitcoin, and stocks
too.
>> People are looking for alternatives
because they've got a lot of money and
it's got to go somewhere and that I
think is the point which actually
correlates risk and gold and bitcoin.
>> I thought that was a conversation you
want wouldn't want a part of. So we've
left you out of it Amanda. I'm sorry.
It's good to see you as always. Thank
you. Amanda Linham of Black Rockck. Up
next, Drew Mattis of Medlife, Jay
Goldberg of Seapport, Lindsey Prager of
Steve, Jim Turney of Lance Bernstein.
[Music]
>> I don't see much of a change to the
leadership fabric of the market.
>> It's a different structure in terms of
the market itself. In terms of
participants,
>> you are seeing a broader now.
>> Every market is pricing in this AI
structural theme.
>> People are willing to put up some
serious money to be a part of that
story.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. The
gains keep building. Up a third of 1% on
the S&P. on the NASDAQ up by 0.8. You
want a big move? Here's a big move. AMD
in the pre-market higher by 27%.
The story dropped about an hour ago. AMD
inking a deal with OpenAI to roll out AI
infrastructure.
>> This follows a whole host of deals that
OpenAI has inked with other uh big tech
companies. I'm thinking of Nvidia for
their chips. I'm thinking of uh Oracle
and I'm thinking of Microsoft. It raises
a question about that you raised last
hour. uh how leveraged this entire story
is to open AI, but it also speaks to
this incredible fervor in capital
markets right now. They are wide open
especially for anything related to AI
and we're bringing merger merger Monday
back and that is what we're seeing this
morning.
>> Deal activity seen a ton of it. Here's
another one. Fifth third to buy America
for 82.88 per share buying the company
in an all stock deal valued at $10.9
billion. Com up by 13%. I keep going
back to that phrase that Jim Zout of
Apollo used back in spring, macro
paralysis. That's what it felt like at
the time. 6 months later, corporate
America has moved on and moved on big
time.
>> Which raises this issue? Are we seeing a
reaceleration into the fourth quarter,
which is something that we've heard from
the likes of airline CEOs and we've
heard from banking executives when it
comes to capital markets activity. Do
corporate executives have enough
conviction in the backdrop for
financing, in the backdrop potentially
for Fed rate cuts, in the backdrop
potentially that we aren't going to see
some sort of massive increase in tariff
rates that they can put these deals
together, especially in the banking
sector where regulators are saying go
for it and prosper.
>> So, we don't know. We don't know because
we've got no economic data. Um, half
joking of course, but we've got to rely
on the corporations now for the next few
weeks. JP Morgan reports next week, DA
this week. I know that that's going to
be the high income side of things over
at Delta, a story that you follow
closely, but we're going to depend on
them a lot if this government shutdown
continues.
>> Yeah, they're going to set the tone. And
how leveraged is this market to the idea
of better than or worse than uh earnings
reports coming out of a lot of these
companies as well as the commentary. I
mean, CEOs in some way this year have
turned into the diplomats, the central
bankers, the politicians. And guess
what? here. They're they're the they're
the economists where they're coming out
and they're telling you all of the
information that we're not getting from
the government that we're not getting
from some of the official sources. It
really has been a notable shift when we
see uh you know the bank of central uh
the central bank of Jensen Wang, the
central bank of Delta. That is what
we're looking at right now.
>> It's quite a change, that's for sure.
Coming up this hour, Drew Madison of
Metife Investment Management with stocks
at all-time highs. Jake Goldberg of
Seapport on what he calls bubble-like
behavior in the chip sector and Lindsey
Prager of Stif with the government
shutdown jeopardizing more economic
data. We begin this hour with stocks
shaking off the political division in
Washington. Dream Mattis of Metife
Investment Management writing, "Given
the level of fragility in the labor
market and already low level of consumer
sentiment, this timing may make it
worse, but it does not currently seem a
cause for material concern." Drew joins
us now for more. Drew, welcome to the
show. based on a market move. Certainly
not all-time highs and we had some
weight to the rally this morning. Drew,
do you think we're on the precipice of a
meltup or a meltdown?
>> Uh I'm more worried about the latter. Uh
and the reason being is simply because
everyone's very excited about AI.
Everyone's talking about what it's going
to do for productivity. Um and at the
same time they're saying, "Oh, well
maybe the reason jobs aren't being
created is because of AI." So, it's this
really weird disconnect between like
really just pricing in all the benefits
or potential benefits from AI over the
long term um and ignoring the transition
costs that always go along with some
sort of transition like that. If you go
back to the advent of the computer age
and computers really making their way
into uh into companies, there was a lot
of disruption there. It created a lot of
issues for a lot of companies. Um, and
you know, we're just kind of ignoring
that in order to get from point A to
point B, there's a pretty rough road uh
that you have to travel.
>> So, Drew, it sounds like you're
reflecting on maybe the late 90s, for
instance. This was a conversation we had
in the previous hour and whether you
need a mass misallocation of resources
before you can really identify the
ultimate winners of the cycle, of the
story, of the theme. Drew, do you see
history repeating?
>> I'm not sure if it repeats, but
certainly going to rhyme. Uh and I think
you know if we think about how you can
do things with AI versus how you had to
do things with computers before
computers you know in computers it was
kind of easy right you kind of took
individual job functions and you just
kind of streamline them. Uh with AI it
enables you to go across multiple job
functions so across different silos. And
so siloed companies are going to find it
very difficult to compete with AI native
companies that are designed around a a
technology that allows them to actually
people to have a broader span of control
of things and therefore be much more
efficient. Drew, are we looking at a
market that isn't necessarily thinking
rationally, and I don't mean to give
some sort of anthropomorphic qualities
to this market, but a market that just
is reacting to the fact that there is
plenty of money slloshing around,
central banks easing, and governments
that are more inclined to stimulate than
to uh have fiscal prudence.
>> Well, so there's a lot of quirks going
on there as well, right? The the Fed is
still shrinking its balance sheet. Uh
and and we should ask ourselves why
they're doing that. And you know, it's
it's a little bit like the Wizard of Oz,
like you know, pay attention to the rate
cuts. Don't pay attention to the fact
we're continuing to shrink our balance
sheet, which is a tightening mechanism,
even as we're easing interest rates,
right? So, I I I believe that there's,
you know, they've identified something
that they want to do with the balance
sheet, and they're getting there. And
quite frankly, I, you know, I think that
they're willing to trade rate cuts in
order to keep reducing the size of the
balance sheet. And I I think it would
behoove us to ask ourselves why they
think that's necessary. And you know,
maybe the answer is there's too much
liquidity slashing around uh and they
need to get the amount of liquidity
relative to the size of the economy back
into some sort of balance.
>> Okay. But Drew, I guess that if the Fed
is willing to cut rates, there is plenty
of liquidity slashing around. You're
seeing yields climb higher. You're
seeing a pullback in equities. Where
does the money go if there is some sort
of selloff?
Uh well I mean usually when there's some
kind of selloff or there's some kind of
event like that it's a riskoff event.
Riskoff event you move into cash and
kind of other things like that. And so
you know and I also think when you have
a lot of things going on so we have you
know tariffs we have a labor story we've
got uh these earnings numbers and and
they don't match up. What happens is is
the volume of information coming in
becomes too great for people to kind of
internalize and make decisions on. And
so they switch to kind of a more basic
fight orflight instinct, which is kind
of risk on, risk off. Uh and so I think
that when in an environment like this,
you're much more prone to um large
market events as people decide, you know
what, I don't understand what's
happening. I'm just going to kind of
take my money off the table today and
I'll figure out whether I want to put my
money back on the table tomorrow. So
Drew, let's pick an asset. Let's take
gold. Massive rally so far this year
alongside the big rally we've seen in
stocks. If we had that pullback, how do
you think gold would correlate with
broader risk?
>> Uh well, I'm not an expert on that, but
I mean I I do think that the move you're
seeing in gold has has a lot to do with
kind of Fed credibility and whether or
not, you know, people believe the Fed is
is up to the task. And and what's
interesting is that's happening despite
the fact there's no sign of kind of
inflation pressure or long-term
inflation expectations becoming
unhinged, but it's a relative trade
versus equities. So, I know they've been
moving up in tandem, but gold has been
outperforming equities. Uh, and when
that kind of thing happens, it's usually
a sign that people don't really have a
lot of faith uh that Fed policy is kind
of in the right spot or going to
continue to be in the right spot for an
indefinite period of time. Drew, I'm
just going to say this and by all means
disagree, but it sounds like you don't
have much faith in the Fed's pursuit of
their inflation mandate. Is that fair?
>> Uh I I think I think the Fed kind of got
off course. You know, once you uh I I
think that there are it's unimportant
whether inflation is at 3% or 2%. What's
really important is the volatility of
inflation, right? Because volatility and
inflation creates planning problems for
corporations. If you tell a CEO that
they're going to have 3% inflation for
the next 10 years, guaranteed, that's a
lot better than we're going to have
between 0 and 2% inflation with 200
basis points of volatility in that,
right? Because the the more concrete
information you can provide to decision
makers, the easier it is for them to
make decisions and the more decisions
they make, which means that the economy
does more because they're more willing
to invest, they're more willing to hire,
they're more willing to kind of take
those chances that they need to take
because the volume of chances they have
to take is being reduced.
>> To put it all together, Drew, is it
better to hedge against a reaceleration
in inflation or is it better to hedge
against some sort of downturn in growth
right now? Well, I'd say downturn in
growth because I don't think there's a
lot they can do to push inflation lower.
Uh, and if you try to do that, what
you're going to end up with is sticky
inflation and much lower growth. So, if
you're going to have inflation, you
might as well have the growth to go
along with it.
>> I guess that the the logical question
would be, do bonds provide the hedge to
lower growth if inflation is still a
concern?
Uh well, I think that's why you're
seeing the 10-year stick where it is,
and that's our expectation for this year
and next year is that we're going to
have the 10-year yield somewhere between
kind of four and four and a half. Uh and
it's just going to be stuck there, which
also tells you that whatever the Fed's
rate cuts are going to do. Uh they're
probably not going to be as effective as
they have been in the past, which might
mean you might get a few more of them,
right? And I think the market's kind of
come around to the idea we're going to
see maybe 100 basis points more in
easing. Uh that's in the rough right
neighborhood in our minds. Uh but you're
not going to probably see a lot of
movement the long end which means you're
going to see a significant curve
steepening.
>> Drew, just finally, how quickly do you
think those 100 basis points come about?
>> Oh, I I don't think they're in a rush,
but I do think it's going to be
sustained. And once again, same reason.
You want to just keep signaling that
you're doing something, but you
understand that what you're doing might
not the most the material impact is
going to be from the announcement of
doing it, not from the actual act
itself.
>> Got it, Drew. Thank you, sir. Appreciate
it. Drew Mattis of Metife Investment
Management. A lot of that stuff is
priced.
>> Yeah. Which is the reason why people are
saying, "How much is the market already
bringing forward rate cuts that have yet
to happen, leaving a real potential
disappointment risk if those Fed rate
cuts don't come through,
>> which means maybe they have to go more,
which is what Drew was kind of bringing
up then,
>> which is the reason why you get to the
sort of speculation type of environment
if you're a bear. the governor Myron Dot
isn't so isn't so crazy when you think
about where this Fed could go under new
leadership next year,
>> especially given the fact that other
banks, big Wall Street banks, said that
the neutral rate could be near where
he's talking about. It's not that
outrageous. But did you see that Steven
Myron over the weekend said that if he
did see rents pick up, that would be a
concern for him and that he would
reconsider how quickly to cut rates. So,
it does seem like there is some sort of
economic check even on the most dovish
position on the central bank. We are
supposed to get inflation data next
week, but stay tuned for that because we
don't know what data we will and won't
get given the government shutdown.
Equity futures on the S&P just keep
doing their thing. Up by 0.4% on the S&P
500 with an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us,
here's Yahi. Hey yara.
>> Hi, John. The government shutdown, as
you were just saying, is in its sixth
day. The Senate is set to vote again
today on a stop gap spending bill that's
already failed four times. Senate
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer says House
Speaker Mike Johnson has refused to
negotiate with Democrats on extending
healthc care subsidies.
Meanwhile, AMD shares are surging 33% in
the pre-market following news it signed
a deal with Open AI. Open AAI will
deploy 6 gawatt of AMD GPUs over
multiple years. The deal is expected to
deliver tens of billions of dollars in
revenue for AMD while accelerating
OpenAI's infrastructure buildout.
And in sports, the NFL has no undefeated
teams remaining after week five action.
The Philadelphia Eagles fell to the
Denver Broncos and the New England
Patriots stunned the Buffalo Bills with
a 23-20 upset. Elsewhere, the Baltimore
Ravens fell to 1 and4. The New York Jets
lost to the Dallas Cowboys and the
Giants were defeated by the New Orleans
Saints. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next, the morning calls. Plus, we'll
catch up with Jay Goldberg of Seapport
on what he calls bubble-like behavior in
the chip sector. That conversation just
around the corner.
[Music]
I think the reality is the the AI boom
is is real. It's not going to be a
question around hundreds of trillion
hundreds of billions of dollars of
capex, but rather trillions. And in our
opinion here at Clear Harbor, how it's
really going to impact and benefit
multiple sectors of of the US and the
global economy. Lots of opportunity for
productivity gains and ultimately maybe
a surprise to the upside and growth. So
that was Aaron Canada clear harbor asset
management joining us a little bit
earlier this morning following another
big deal in this sector. Let's start
with the index level stuff. We're
positive by 0.4% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by 0.9. The gains continue
largely thanks to this this morning.
This is AMD. AMD in the pre-market now
higher. Brammo 33% move on their stock
following this deal with OpenAI.
>> AMD has a seat at the table with the
likes of Nvidia, with the likes of
Oracle, with the likes of Microsoft.
Their chips are also going to be used
with open AI. And it really goes to this
question, how much is open AI almost at
the center of all things having to do
with algorith algorithmic learning and a
lot of these investments and how
intertwined are all of these companies
at a time of incredibly elevated uh
valuations.
>> We're going to build on this in just a
moment. Before we get there, let's get
you some morning calls. First up, Wells
Fargo raising its price target on
Microsoft to 675, expecting it to
benefit from higher cloud demand.
Elsewhere, Morgan Stanley upgraded
Micron to overweight, citing quote
substantially higher earnings power. And
finally, Goldman, raising its price
target on Nvidia to 210, pointing to
growth from its strategic investments
and partnerships. Sticking with tech,
Jay Goldberg of Seapport calling the
recent moves in AI bubble like behavior.
Jay Goldberg joins us now for more. Jay,
welcome to the program, sir. You've got
a rare cell rating on Nvidia. Let's just
talk about that line, bubble-like
behavior. Does the announcement from AMD
and OpenAI speak to some of that for
you?
>> Absolutely. Uh it's it's it's quite an
interesting thing to wake up to this
morning where you have a company that's
giving away 10% of its stock to a to a
startup that doesn't have positive free
cash flow to buy tens of billions of
dollars of their products somewhere down
the line and and that company's stock is
up 30%. Um it it you know on the on the
face of it I haven't had time to parse
it but it looks like a great a good deal
for AMD over the long term but it just
you know the the the the market reaction
seems to be looking at only the
positives and applying a 0% discount
rate to future events not looking
through the whole deal. At the same
time, Jay, in the past, we've seen uh
earnings outperform again and again and
again from these companies. And a lot of
people will come on and say if you look
at the uh price to to to the actual
income level, you've seen multiples come
down, not go up, even with prices going
up significantly. What about that story
doesn't work for you in the same way
that it did say three years ago?
>> So, so I I think look, I'm not a a bear
on AI in general. I think AI has the
potential to be very important, but no
technology gets adopted in a straight
line. Uh there always going to be fits
and starts. Uh we saw that with the
internet. We saw that with with mobile.
These things go up and down. They don't
they don't just keep running forever.
And I think I think just assuming
drawing straight lines, extrapolating
from where we are today into some sort
of never- ending future, it that's not
how things are going to work. And I
think we we need just a little degree of
of caution around some of this stuff
where a lot of these things are getting
very extended uh just based on
you know what the actual deployments are
looking like and returns that the
hyperscalers are getting on their
investments.
>> What do you think is the most
speculative at this point? Jay, I know
that your call is on Nvidia, which is uh
notable given all of the buy ratings
that we see on it, but beyond that, is
Nvidia the biggest offender right now in
your mind? Well, I I think the whole
thing we have this sort of massive AI
spend taking place right now. Uh but if
you boil it all down, it's really six
companies that are driving all of that,
right? Microsoft, Amazon, Google, Meta,
OpenAI, and Microsoft. And
I I understand the their their
imperatives and why they're doing this.
Um but I I think it is worth reflecting
on that. It's just six companies and
none of them actually have a very clear
uh return on their investment even in
the works. They're sort of spending
because everyone else is spending. Uh
and then you have OpenAI who who is you
know an incredibly capable company
coming with great models but at the same
time you know they're free cash flow
negative. So uh I think that sort of
calls into question the sustainability
of all this
>> and Jay it's bringing in multiple
sectors. It's energy, it's the capital
providers, it's tech.
>> I know based on some of your writing
that you think this could exacerbate
problems further down the road. Could
you build on that just a little bit that
the concentration exacerbates the
downside risk?
>> I I think that's that's absolutely the
case where you know when I when I hear
my colleagues on the morning call talk
about energy and pipelines and materials
um you know and and they all talk about
the AI element to their stocks growth.
That just makes me pause. Like, I've
been covering semiconductors for over 20
years now. Uh, and I've always had good
relationships with my peers, but we
usually never talk about each other's
stocks. There's never been a lot of
overlap. Uh, and here here we have
everybody talking about the the same the
same themes. Uh, it makes me wonder,
>> Jay, the energy piece of it is
interesting. There has been a broader
conversation. People acknowledge the
potential for constraints. Do you think
that's going to be the first constraint,
the thing that shakes this up quickly?
>> Absolutely. Right. I mean, and I I look
at Nvidia like I'm I'm cautious on
Nvidia. I think of my my rating here as
more of an underperform than a sell. I
wouldn't short Nvidia. Um the but the
issue is at this point Nvidia is kind of
all the good news is priced into Nvidia
and none of the potential downside is is
priced in. There are a lot of things
that can go go wrong that are beyond
their control. Uh and you know top of
that list is electricity, right? We
don't know to the extent to which OpenAI
is going to be able to deliver on all
these all these electricity numbers they
put out there and like in just the last
week they've talked about adding 16
gawatts of compute capacity. Uh I I
don't think anyone knows exactly where
all that power is going to come from.
They have maybe some rough ideas uh but
I don't think all those are are a lock
and that that's a real that's a real
problem. I think that's going to pause
things somewhere down the road. Jay, how
far are we from some sort of energy
related constraint on how much the
promises of expansion can really meet
reality?
>> I I think it's a little a little beyond
my my scope. Like I'm I'm just a humble
semiconductor analyst. Uh but I I do
think we start to see more concern about
that in next year.
>> At what point do you see this also being
a question of the US versus China,
especially given deepseek? I mean, do
you think that that kind of uh issue is
going to come to the four that there
could be some new innovation that
renders some of the big tech companies
more obsolete in short order?
>> Well, I think that is it's this weird
dichotomy we have where the US has chips
but not a lot not enough electricity.
China has all the electricity they need
but not enough chips. Uh so both sides
have their face their own constraints.
Uh but I do think there are going to be
some pretty significant uh I don't want
to say breakthroughs but sort of
advances in China as companies like
Huawei uh find new ways to build their
own uh domestic supply chain that gets
them out from under these US
restrictions. They probably won't be as
good as as the best that Nvidia and AMD
have to offer, but they may be good
enough uh for them to, you know, push
ahead. There's a lot of an immense
amount of AI talent in China. I I don't
want to overstate it. I think the US
still has a pretty big lead in terms of
just sort of fundamental foundational
models. Uh but there's an incredible
amount of talent in China and I I think
they're not as constrained as the US
government might think.
>> Jay, just to finish on that, when you
frame it in the following terms, when
you say that China has the electricity,
not the chips, that the US has the
chips, but maybe has the energy
constraints, which problem is easier to
fix?
>> I I I think it's going to be China
getting getting around US sanctions one
way or another. probably by building
their own supply chain.
>> Jay Goldberg of Seport. Jay, come back
soon. We got a lot to talk about. That
really is the bearish view, if we can
call it that, the bearish view
relatively speaking to the exuberance
elsewhere this morning at least.
>> Yeah. Talking about how there are a lot
of constraints that we haven't yet
experienced, whether it's energy or
whether it's just some of the
competition coming from overseas. That
last point really interesting.
Essentially, China's constraints are uh
less ownorous than the US's constraints
when it comes to just getting around
sanctions and restrictions on US sales
versus creating an entirely new energy
infrastructure over in the US.
>> You think it'd be easier to build out
the energy infrastructure? I'm no expert
on this matter. Clearly, Jay's got his
views on the matter, but if you were
just to ask the lay person, I think
they'd come around to the idea that it
would be easier to do something about
energy. But ultimately that's the
downside case for Nvidia based on what
Jay said is the energy constraints that
are going to basically manifest
materialize quicker than people think.
>> Yeah. Well, how long does it take to
build a nuclear p plant? We've talked
about that takes a long time. How long
does it take to get the permitting
necessary for a lot of these energy
plants? The whole nimi not in my
backyard. Who wants a big energy plant
in their backyard? Not a lot of people.
All of these constraints really are
would have tied the hands of a lot of
people in the US.
>> Listened carefully to what he said.
underperformed, not a sell. Yeah,
difficult to sell this story right now.
The Nasdaq up by nine cents and 1%.
>> He's still a believer. This isn't
someone saying, "This is horrible. It's
all a huge bubble. This is tulips." This
is somebody saying, "Maybe we're getting
a little set of ourselves in this whole
circular financing thing." Uh, it's
leaving me a little queasy.
>> If you get the meltup, trying to short
that is painful.
>> Yeah, even if ultimately down the road,
you might be right. NASDAQ 100 futures
up by 0.9%. Up next, Lindsay Praifo with
the government shutdown jeopardizing
more economic data.
[Music]
Live from New York City, welcome back to
the program. 60 minutes away from the
opening bow. 6 days, no losses. Make it
day seven. Up by 0.4% 4% on the S&P 500
up by 0.9 on the NASDAQ 100 in the bond
market 2's 10 30s bond yields look like
this two-year bond yields down last week
weaker than expected economic data
dragging yields back towards 350 up this
morning by a couple of basis points 359
24 on twos on 10 41598 10's in focus
Wednesday 30s in focus on Thursday bond
supply coming through this week
>> at a time when we're talking about
global uh sell-offs in glo and developed
market bonds because of the fiscal
backdrop. I just wonder how much of this
also is a result of a lot of bond fund
managers saying to a lot of people this
is the time to get into longerterm
bonds. This is the income trade. Let's
go. We saw those calls over the past
couple of weeks and then oh yeah, hold
on a second. Yields can also go up when
you get some sort of global hiccup and
that's what we're seeing right now. How
much staying power that has let's see
with the auctions
>> attempting to make this interesting. Of
course it is interesting. But compared
to the moves we're seeing in the stock
market elsewhere, AMD, these headlines
just crossing. The AMD CEO Lisa Sue
speaking in a conference call saying the
open AI deal is not exclusive and that
they can supply everyone. As we count
you down to the opening bout that is the
number one stock to watch with more,
here's Jihara. Hey yhara.
>> Exactly, John. And it is a monster move
on AMD shares, rising 35% now in the
pre-market after it signed a multi-year
deal with OpenAI to supply six gawatts
of AI chips. A move that could bring AMD
tens of billions of dollars in new
revenue. The latest signs that the AI
buildout shows no signs of slowing.
Nvidia down 1.2 1.2% on the move.
Meanwhile, Intel rising 2%. And moving
on to another tech player, and that is
Tesla. Shares are up 2% in the
pre-market after the company teased what
looks like a new product reveal set for
October 7th. A series of cryptic posts
on X showed a spinning Tesla logo and
headlights in the dark, sparking buzz
about what could be next for Tesla. And
we end on an M&A deal here. Uh, Fifth
Third Bank Corp. falling 2%. Coma rising
nearly 13% on news that Fifth Third Bank
Corp is buying Co-America in a $10.9
billion deal. It's the latest regional
bank merger as these companies try to
take advantage of the Trump
administration's deregulatory push. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. Some
of the moves to look for around the
opening bell about 58 minutes time.
Let's turn to the government shutdown.
The continued standoff in Washington
plaguing the release of key US economic
data. Michael McKe has been struggling
to keep up as we all have. Mike McKe
joins us now for more. Mike, what do we
look at if we don't have the traditional
economic indicators?
>> Well, you can watch a lot of Bloomberg
surveillance. Uh that's one thing you
could do because at this point we got to
buy into the idea that this is going to
go on for a while. That seems to be the
word out of Washington. In that case,
the good news is we don't have a lot of
significant data due out this week.
We'll miss trade figures tomorrow,
jobless claims on Thursday, inventories
on Thursday. Not big indicators that are
going to change anybody's mind about the
Fed. We do get New York Fed inflation
expectations today and the University of
Michigan sentiment on Friday. Wednesday
is probably the big day. Fed minutes
first meeting for Steven Myron. What was
it like? What did people say and what
did they say about continuing the rate
cutting cycle? We will also get lots of
Fed speak to that point. The question is
how much of it is really going to matter
since they don't have something new to
talk about. But you can see there's a
tremendous number of speakers led off
today by uh Jeffrey Schmidt. He's the uh
the Kansas City Fed uh president. He is
the most hawkish perhaps on the board.
And uh a lot of people speaking, but uh
again, what are they going to say when
there's no new data to talk about? Next
week, that's what they're going to talk
about. Next week is going to be a really
good week. I'm just putting this out
there to make you feel better uh about
the things that we're going to miss if
they don't get uh done. J Pal is
speaking on Tuesday the 14th and he is
speaking about the economic outlook.
That is going to be the highlight of the
week no doubt. Uh then we get CPI, PPI,
retail sales, import prices and housing
starts or we don't get them if the
government remains open uh remains shut
for a third week. So something to look
forward to and keep your fingers crossed
maybe. Well, Mike, let's go with CPI.
That's about nine days away. Is there a
key collection period that would mean
even if we opened up, say, the day
before that they wouldn't be able to
produce the data? It depends on how much
time they have. They have been
struggling with a lack of people to do
all the work. In 2013, they did produce
a CPI when the government finally
reopened and it was based on about 45%
of the usual data, but wasn't revised
significantly going forward. So they can
do it. It's a question of how much
credence you'll give the numbers and how
much it's going to matter uh by the time
they finally get it out.
>> Mike McKe with the latest. Mike, thank
you. Struggling to keep up with this
one, but ultimately looking forward to
CPI and hoping that we actually get a
read on US inflation next week. Lindsey
Per of Steve joins us now for more.
Lindsay, we didn't get payrolls. We're
still waiting for that. We might not get
CPI. We will get a Fed meeting at the
end of the month. I'm told they're
essential. If they meet Lindsay and they
don't have CPI and they don't have
payrolls, do they make the decision to
cut interest rates?
>> Well, I think even without an updated
look at the data, I I think the the
conversation is going to be very fierce
in the sense that we do have this
growing number of Fed officials that is
increasingly concerned about the
lingering level of inflation, that
elevated level of inflation, and those
that are focused more on the weakness of
employment. So even without a new data
point, I think this conversation is
going to intensify and complicate the
ability for the Fed to justify any
further movement. And the lack of data,
I think, is going to reinforce the need
for a more patient, cautious approach to
policy from here.
>> What data are you watching right now,
Lindsay, given that the gold standard
data, which is flawed, yes, but also is
probably the best uh that that we've
got, what are you focusing on instead?
Well, I I think right now again, we
still have a lot of information on the
price side. We're still waiting to see
whether or not we see an updated CPI and
PPI report, but we have a lot of
information coming down the pipeline to
suggest that inflation is not
necessarily headed back to that 2% price
level. We see some of the Fed's
preferred measures of inflation, the
PCE, the core PCE still up near 3% with
the most recent report suggesting some
upward momentum in the pipeline. So
again, I I think it's very important
that the Fed stays focused on that
mandate for price stability. Even with
early signs of a cooling in topline
hiring, the Fed should not completely
abandon that price stability component,
which it's failed to reinstate years now
post the pandemic.
>> At the same time, we did see that job
openings per unemployed people, that
ratio fell to the lowest since 2021 in
the recent Jolt survey. We did see the
non-farm payrolls in August. that was
highly concerning to some people and we
did see pretty significant downward
revisions to the overall payrolls
figures uh for the year ended in March.
At what point do you give credence to
the idea that there really is a
significant shift in the labor market
that does also warrant attention by the
Fed?
>> Well, we also see that jobless claims
while volatile are still in a very low
tight range. We also see the
unemployment rate is still stubbornly
down near 4%ish. So, I think at the at
the very least the labor market data are
not all pointing in the same direction,
which isn't to say we ignore the data
points that are on the weaker side, but
it's to say it's not an alarm bell quite
yet. It's something to watch. It's
something to be aware of. That being
said, this is a very aged recovery, and
I would expect, particularly given the
reduction in international flows, that
the need for topline hiring to slow. As
we heard from Chair Powell, he
previously noted that full employment
was roughly around 125 150,000 in terms
of payrolls. Well, he has significantly
revised that lower. And I think that's a
more reasonable expectation for topline
growth. Not necessarily an expanding
labor market, but certainly enough to
keep stability in place in today's labor
market.
>> Lindsay, can we pair that view with
what's happening in stock markets and
more broadly financial conditions? Do
you think the Federal Reserve is risking
misplacing its anchor around the labor
market around these step down in
payrolls and ultimately fueling
financial excesses and pockets of let's
call it exuberance right now? Is that a
financial stability concern they need to
consider? It
>> it it really is and this is something
that we've seen before. We we look at
investors and they seem to be trading up
on good data. That means the economy is
relatively solid. trading up on bad data
as well because this is that Fed put the
expectation that the Fed will jump in
and provide monetary policy support with
additional policy easing even at the
expense of maintaining still elevated
inflation. And so I do think that the
market has become complacent that the
Fed will continue to support the economy
regardless of the the balance in terms
of the risks on both sides of the
mandate tilting to one side or the
other.
>> Lindsay, appreciate your time as always.
Lindsay PX are there of Stafel on the
economy and potential financial
stability risks. Certainly with regards
to some of these moves, AMD is a $270
billion company and we're seeing a 30%
move off the back of an Open AI deal and
OpenAI is a company that's not making
money and we're all leveraging a lot of
bets on the idea that they can keep on
spending and keep on spending and keep
on spending.
>> This is the kind of move that we saw in
Oracle too. remember just in a couple of
days. And again, these are huge
companies, hundreds of billions of
dollars of market capitalization, moving
significantly off promises that haven't
yet borne out and that don't have a lot
of tangibility to them, which just
highlights how much people are
enthusiastic. It does raise a question
about the idea of bubbles or incredible
exuberance or whatever you want to call
it. And I keep thinking about that 9,000
figure from Julian Emanuel saying that
he now sees a 30% chance that we could
see the S&P rise to 9,000. I'm still
trying to get my head around it by the
end of next year as a result of some of
these dynamics.
>> AMD is up 35% this morning
>> and it's on its way.
>> Ed Lllo is going to join us in just a
moment to break down that particular
agreement. Stay tuned for that. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide.
Back with us with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahira. Hi Yhira.
>> Hi John. French Prime Minister Sebastian
La Cornu has resigned only three weeks
after being named to the post by
President Emanuel Mcronone. And just one
day after a controversial cabinet
reshuffle, Mcronone now has to decide
whether to name a new prime minister,
call a par parliamentary election, or
resign himself. The rising political
uncertainty sending French bond yields
higher. Meanwhile, President Trump is
urging Israel and Hamas to reach a
settlement to end the two-year war in
Gaza. Mediated talks begin today in
Egypt with US Envoy Steve Wickoff
attending. The first test of progress
will be whether Hamas releases its
remaining hostages in exchange for
Israel freeing Palestinian prisoners.
And a change at the top at Verizon. Dan
Schulman has been named as the company's
new CEO, replacing Hans Vesber. Vber who
has been CEO since 2019 will serve as a
special adviser through October 4th of
2026. Schulman was the former CEO of
PayPal. Dr. Bloomberg brief John
>> Yahara. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for this morning. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. We'll catch up with James Tney of
Alliance Bernstein plus Ed Lello on this
move right here. AMD up in the
pre-market by close to 35%.
That's next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
AI has the potential to be very
important, but no technology gets
adopted in a straight line. Uh there
always going to be fits and starts.
drawing straight lines, extrapolating
from where we are today into some sort
of never- ending future. I that's not
how things are going to work. All the
good news is priced into Nvidia and none
of the potential downside is is priced
in. There are a lot of things that can
go go wrong that are beyond their
control. A lot of things going right
this morning for a lot of stocks. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 firmer. The
NASDAQ 100 up as well by 0.8%. One stock
in particular getting our attention.
Shares of AMD absolutely soaring on the
back of a deal with OpenAI. Their stock
is up by more than 36%.
Ed Lllo has more. Ed, if I told you this
deal ahead of time, would you have put a
number a move like that off the back of
it? I'm not sure how many people would.
>> I I would have said yes on on the AMD
move in the shares, the reaction to the
story, but I'd still be surprised at the
story, right? Because um the structure
of the deal is really important here.
you know, it's six gigawatts, which is
the capacity and peak time demand for a
large city when you talk about
electricity. So, it's a serious deal,
and AMD is talking about it on paper
being tens of billions of dollars. But
the thing that you really need to
understand is OpenAI still has to spend
money here. So, AMD has issued a warrant
for OpenAI to get up to 160 million AMD
shares, but they are in tranches against
deliverables. And unless Open AI spends
some money, which we need to discuss
like where's it going to get that from
then uh honestly it's very hard to
understand how this comes into fruition
into real life. Um but just like Nvidia
is kind of the golden ticket for AI if
you're a software company you know Open
AI is the golden ticket if you are a
hardware company. Um and and it's a
still some details to iron out I think.
Just how much are we leveraging on the
success of one company to keep on
spending keep on spending when they're
not making any money?
>> Yeah, that's why I say that the
structure of the deal is important
because there is a difference between
what Open AAI and AMD have agreed to do
versus what we have been calling
circular financing. So in parallel the
Nvidia OpenAI deal um saw Nvidia also
against deliverables but give uh Open AI
probably some kind of uh something in
lie of cash let's call it chips but they
got open AI equity in return. In this
instance open AI is getting AMD equity.
Um and so it's not open AI taking cash
from AMD and funneling it straight back
into the gear. It it's really
interesting. I think that the main thing
is the simple question. You're all
committing to this. What if 10 years
down the line you don't need any of that
capacity and you've done your math
wrong? Edo with the latest. Ed, I'm
looking forward to the program a little
bit later this morning. Bloomberg
Technology 11:00 a.m. Eastern time. Ed
Lllo and Caroline Hyde. Buying relevance
is a conversation we're about to have.
AMD up by 35%. buying relevance because
AMD wasn't in the game and that I think
is the really important thing is that
Nvidia was the big chipmaker and AMD
kept getting lost in the dust and this
real question of the uh smartphone super
cycle really was the one that was
weighing on AMD. Suddenly, if they can
come up with microprocessors for the
likes of Open AI, does that unleash a
whole slew of value that hadn't yet been
priced in?
>> Jim Tierney of Alliance Bernstein writes
the following. Here's the quote. Should
the funding spigot turn off in 26 or 27,
the entire ecosystem will slow down and
the market is not currently pricing that
in. Jim joins us now for more. Jim, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Buying relevance is not my phrase. That
was the way you frame things walking
into the studio. So, let's talk about
it. What do you think of this deal and
how does it differ to other things that
have been announced in the last month?
>> I think it makes a lot of sense for AMD.
Broadcom was a player, Nvidia, they were
the top two players. Uh, this buys them
relevance. uh and and the open AI seal
of approval really matters.
>> Does it concern you that AI is the new
uh Bitcoin or the no new blockchain or
something that we've seen before that
all you have to do is announce a deal
that may or may not come to fruition in
order to see your stock surge by this
much?
>> I think the market is so binary right
now that people are looking for an AI
story and this is a really big AI story.
The question is what is the productivity
all of this is going to drive and if the
productivity is there either through the
ability to do more or do more with less
then we're going to see more of this.
>> There is also this question of creating
capacity in the energy space that can
really allow that productivity and allow
some of the promises to come through the
pipeline. We were just talking uh with
the seapport analyst who is noting that
ultimately that might be the constraint
that puts a stop to this. How far away
are we from that? I mean is that
something that's very much on your
radar? O
>> of course many things have to go right
here. We need to have the energy. We
need to have the data centers. We need
to have the chips. Uh I think so many
people are focused on this. That's not
my biggest concern here.
>> What is your biggest concern?
>> That the productivity just doesn't uh
play out.
>> We don't get the return on the
investment.
>> Exactly.
>> Any sign of that right now? We're all
waiting for these big revelations to
come. When do we start to lose patience
or are we seeing enough already?
>> We're seeing little bits of it right
now. I think we need to see a heck of a
lot more particularly given the amount
of spending that is going to be done
over the next couple of years.
>> Spending is key and you've reflected on
that when we introduced you. There's a
lot of spending. Is there any reason to
believe that spigot is going to be
turned off anytime soon on the spending
or is that just linked to what you said
previously about the fact that these
companies need to show that they're
generating some returns on the
investment? We'll hear a lot more over
the next couple of weeks through
earnings and see what 2026 capex budgets
look like, but I think they're going up.
The Stargate deal, the uh Nvidia deal,
this deal gives Open AI some funding.
So, I don't think the spigot turns off
in 26 or 27 to be blunt.
>> How much do you think the high uh
valuations are simply because people
cannot price in the macro environment
right now and are losing faith in
government related assets? I mean, in a
serious way, people say, "Well, I can't
price in a macro environment that's a
black box." But I can price in some of
the potential gains in productivity,
some of the potential uh gains just more
broadly in quality of life from the
likes of artificial intelligence.
>> In some ways, there's definitely a chase
going on here. The amount of money
that's been made in the space over the
last couple of years is massive. So,
people want to say, "What's the next
opportunity?" So, there is a little bit
of a chase here.
>> What are you doing? Are you letting up a
little bit on some of the uh positioning
or are you getting in and doubling down
because a bubble's going to bubble?
>> We have a variety of different
exposures. Uh things that are obvious
like an Nvidia but things that are less
obvious like an eaten or uh an amphanol.
So we're playing it across a variety of
different uh opportunities.
>> Can you build on that just a little bit
more? Where are those opportunities, the
sectors, the industries, the exposure
you do want to get to things that might
be still underpriced, if I can use that
phrase on a day like today when you're
seeing moves like this? Some of the
things we talked about Nvidia obviously
on the chip side you look at Amphenol in
terms of their copper connectors uh
being in the in the Nvidia boxes that's
an opportunity eaten in the data centers
in terms of providing the electrical
equipment there so not just one space
but but having a number of bets across
the spectrum
>> is it all becoming one trade are you
sensing that from conversations you have
is it all becoming one trade one theme
>> it's very correlated you look at up days
you look at down days and you see a
whole basket of stocks that move
together absolutely
>> does that make your job a lot harder
harder
>> for sure.
>> How different is it to the '90s based on
that?
>> Uh there are a lot of similarities for
sure.
>> Jim Tennley of Lance Bernstein. Jim,
thanks for dropping by.
>> Thank you.
>> Appreciate it. Thank you, sir.
Similarities to the '90s not quite there
yet. These are companies OpenAI to one
side. These are companies that are
making a lot of money right now. and the
capex plans that Jim were talking about.
He thinks the spending is going to
continue through 26 through 27 unless
you see some kind of big upset
>> which I guess is really the key
question. What could be that upset? Is
it going to be the energy? Is it going
to be productivity and where it is or is
it happening? Is it going to come in the
form of some sort of downturn or some
sort of turning off in the federal
spigot when it comes to spending? Right
now, people aren't seeing it. They're
saying this is a sea change akin to the
railroad, akin to the.com uh situation
that did give rise to the internet and
that's the reason why people are piling
in. I also think there's no alternative
right now. If there is a viable uh kind
of alternative, people got might get
more excited. That's why I think a lot
of people are saying I can analyze this
so let's go.
>> Julian Emanuel of Everore, you mentioned
the potential of 9K on the S&P, which
sounds crazy. He said increased
probability of a bubble. Nadia level of
UBS evidence of a possible meltup into
year end. that's growing. Think about
how many people since April have been on
the sidelines and missed a lot of this
over the last six months, waiting for
the consequences of Liberation Day to
finally bite, waiting and waiting, and
this market keeps getting away from
them. And Nadia's point on Friday was
ultimately that that's going to be the
thing that pulls people in. Moves like
this, 35% on AMD off the back of a deal
like that.
>> Yeah, the FOMO trade really coming back
in the four. It kind of raises this
question about the Reddit stocks. Who
needs GameStop when you've got the likes
of AMD rising 35% or 36%. You can go to
the more traditional names. Look, I
think when you take a step back, there
is a real question about what the gut
gut check will ultimately be. Is there
going to be a company that came that
comes out and says we invested X Y and Z
in AI and have seen no gain or we're
still investing this or we're going to
pull back on our investment because
we're not seeing the productivity gain.
We're not hearing anything like that.
And actually what you do see from an
increasing number of studies is
inconclusive, but corporate executives
are incredibly excited about the
productivity that they could potentially
engender. So watch this space. It's a
big unknown in a lot of ways, but you
know, people are piling in because it's
given the returns that it has.
>> You know, I'm not usually excited about
bank earnings. I find bank earnings
really tedious. You know that we often
talk about that. But this time given the
amount of activity that we've seen, the
amount of debt that came to the market
in September, the amount of deal flow
that's picked up, things like this, the
regional banks deal that we had earlier
this morning between Coma and Fifth
Third. I think it's going to be pretty
interesting to talk about what they see
at the moment and how much more of they
expect into year round and beyond.
>> Yeah. And what the justifications are
for some of these tie-ups. Is it because
the capital markets are wide open? Is it
because you need size in this kind of
environment? or is it because of
something else that they see going on
that truly is some sort of industrial
renaissance? This is going to be a
fascinating moment.
>> What a start to the trading week. A 35%
move in AMD in the pre-market going into
the opening bal new leadership in Japan,
major move on dollar yen, a lack of
leadership in France, major move in the
French bond market through the year so
far. And then we've got a deal a tie up
in the regional bank sector as well.
That's just an appetizer of things to
come. We won't get any economic data and
no one seems to care. Coming up
tomorrow, Neil Data of Renmack, Dan
Skellyy of Morgan Stanley, Libby Canel
of Pimco, Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research from New York City this Monday
morning. Good morning to you all. Thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]